About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search ENHANCING VALUE CREATION OUR R&D STRATEGY We believe treatments tailored to patients’ specific disease drivers will increase the chance of treatment success. Home Our Science Our R&D Strategy AC IMMUNE'S EXECUTION STRATEGY AC Immune’s execution strategy mirrors our precision medicine approach: powered by our proprietary discovery platforms, SupraAntigen® and Morphomer®, we are establishing a unique portfolio of therapeutic and diagnostic programs capable of addressing the heterogeneity of Alzheimer’s disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. Our strategy builds on three pillars: Accelerate development of novel therapeutics in Alzheimer’s disease Expand into Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan indications Advance our precision medicine-enabling diagnostic portfolio THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Alzheimer’s disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease leading to dementia and a major focus of AC Immune. In recent years, as our pipeline has grown, we have diversified to develop product-candidates targeting Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan diseases. Read more MORPHOMER AND SUPRAANTIGEN Discover AC Immune’s technology platforms that generated our differentiated pipeline of diagnostic and therapeutic candidates. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search PIONEERING PRECISION MEDICINE OUR SCIENCE Advancing our first- and best-in-class therapeutic and diagnostic candidates Home Our Science AC IMMUNE’S DIFFERENTIATED STRATEGY INTEGRATES DEVELOPMENT OF THERAPEUTICS AND DIAGNOSTICS We maximize the potential of our Morphomer® and SupraAntigen® technology platforms to bring innovative treatments to precisely defined patient populations. Our platforms deliver multiple therapeutic and diagnostic modalities resulting in our broad pipeline of product candidates. With the ultimate goal of delivering precision medicine, these are devised to improve patients’ lives at different stages of their disease, including the earliest, when the disease might still be prevented. Our unique vaccine approach for neurodegeneration embodies our vision of safe and effective prevention in patients diagnosed at early stages. SHIFTING THE CURRENT TREATMENT PARADIGM Future treatment paradigms will combine different therapies at various stages of a disease to engage the underlying co-pathologies. Our suite of non-invasive diagnostic programs targeting Tau, a-syn and TDP-43 is designed to improve diagnosis, patient selection and assessment of clinical trial outcomes. Leveraging our Morphomer® platform, we are developing these proprietary imaging agents that could become the first in the world to effectively diagnose these proteinopathies and improve the timing and accuracy of diagnoses to reshape the treatment and clinical course of neurodegenerative diseases. AC IMMUNE: DIFFERENTIATION THROUGH SCIENCE PRECISION MEDICINE Novel Therapeutics and Diagnostics PLATFORMS SupraAntigen® and Morphomer® R&D STRATEGY Focus on Execution PIPELINE Broad - Diverse - Late-stage AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search COMBINING DIAGNOSTICS AND THERAPEUTICS PIONEERING PRECISION MEDICINE Establishing each patient’s disease profile to select the best treatment Home Our Science Pioneering precision medicine WHAT DOES PRECISION MEDICINE DO FOR YOU? Precision medicine is an approach to treating complex diseases. Successfully used in oncology, AC Immune is pioneering precision medicine approaches to address Alzheimer’s and other neurodegenerative diseases. The goal is to monitor each patient’s disease-specific proteinopathies, which enables the well-timed selection of the most appropriate therapeutic(s). IMPROVED DIAGNOSIS FOR MORE ACCURATE TREATMENTS Precision medicine ensures that the right treatment gets to the right patient, at the right time Earlier, more reliable diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases will drive the shift from treatment to prevention Successful combination of therapies will rely on comprehensive analysis of each patient’s disease profile adapted from: Willis & Lord, Nat. Rev. Immunology, 2015 REFINED RESEARCH STRATEGIES ACCELERATE AND DE-RISK CLINICAL DEVELOPMENT Non-invasive diagnostics monitor biomarkers and disease progression to establish treatment efficacy Careful patient selection is used to confirm the presence of the targeted pathology and ensure that therapeutic candidates are evaluated in well-designed trials using the right biomarkers Precision medicine breaks down neurodegenerative diseases into individual pathologies to deal with their root causes Better understanding the individual contributions of targets and their interplay is key to treatment success WHAT IS AC IMMUNE’S PRECISION MEDICINE APPROACH? We employ an integrated approach to developing therapeutics and diagnostics in parallel. Our industry-leading broad and diverse pipeline  is uniquely positioned to enable precision medicine for neurodegenerative diseases. Our suite of modalities targets multiple hallmark proteins of Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and certain NeuroOrphan indications. WE DISCOVER, DEVELOP AND OPTIMIZE HIGHLY SPECIFIC SMALL MOLECULES AND IMMUNOTHERAPIES TO: Selectively address hallmark proteins and recently identified novel targets Provide several therapeutic options targeting different disease stages Access intracellular proteins to prevent damage to neurons Inhibit extracellular spread of pathology across the brain The importance of diagnostics We develop diagnostic agents to detect novel targets and allow early and reliable diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases: AC Immune’s Morphomer® library has delivered clinically validated best-in-class PET imaging tracers Reliable diagnostic tools for our therapeutic programs support an optimal design of therapeutic clinical studies Previous Next OUR ROADMAP TO SUCCESSFUL THERAPIES FOR NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES 1. Treat earlier 2. Target Tau 3. Precisely characterized populations 4. Precision Medicine 5. Target Neuroinflammation 6. Accelerate therapies for Parkinson's and NeuroOrphan diseases OUR BROAD AND DIVERSIFIED PIPELINE Our clinical stage pipeline uniquely integrates diagnostic and therapeutic candidates as well as different treatment modalities (such as antibodies, vaccines and small molecule drugs) against the most promising validated therapeutic targets. Read more OUR CLINICAL TRIALS We believe adaptive biomarker-based trial designs provide the necessary flexibility in an increasingly dynamic regulatory environment and shorten the time from bench to bedside. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search MORPHOMER® AND SUPRAANTIGEN® AC IMMUNE’S TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS The engines that advance our industry-leading pipeline Home Our Science AC Immune’s Technology Platforms AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO CNS-SPECIFIC THERAPIES Our experienced team is pioneering precision medicine targeting neurodegeneration. Deep knowledge of the biological mechanisms found in neurodegenerative diseases led us to develop and optimize cutting-edge complementary discovery technology platforms, Morphomer® and SupraAntigen®. They are the engines that advance our industry-leading pipeline of vaccines, antibodies, small molecules and diagnostics targeting proteinopathies of the central nervous system (CNS). Their agility allows for accelerated discovery and development of candidates targeting novel targets. SupraAntigen® AC Immune has developed advanced capabilities in the design and manipulation of liposomes. Using our proprietary SupraAntigen® technology we develop either passive (i.e. monoclonal antibodies) or active (i.e. vaccines) immunization candidates to target neurodegenerative diseases. SupraAntigen® uses small spherical lipid bilayer vesicles called liposomes, to present specific antigens in a format designed to stimulate immune responses that generate conformation-specific, antigen-targeting antibodies. This is achieved by precisely controlling and stabilizing the spatial arrangement of the peptides on the surface of the liposome, allowing peptides to be presented to the immune system in a conformation-specific pathological configuration. The SupraAntigen® technology can be used for active vaccines that stimulate the patient’s immune system to directly target pathological forms of misfolded proteins. An example of such a vaccine is ACI-24, which targets not only oligomeric Abeta but also pyroglutamate Abeta (pyroGlu-Abeta) peptides. These peptides are truncated forms of the protein that are highly neurotoxic Abeta species found in brain amyloid plaques and believed to be key drivers of AD. SupraAntigen® can also be used to generate monoclonal antibodies externally and these are then administered to patients by injection (passive immunization). ACTIVE VS. PASSIVE IMMUNIZATION When pursuing active immunization, AC Immune uses SupraAntigen®-V to develop liposomes carrying a specific antigen as a vaccine. SupraAntigen® vaccines, like ACI-35.030, have shown potent immunogenicity with strong induction of antibodies specific for pathological forms of Tau. By nature, vaccine-induced immune responses can be long-lasting and may be ideal to prevent disease onset or progression, as the immune system is primed to identify and clear disease-causing misfolded proteins. When pursuing passive immunization using SupraAntigen®-A, AC Immune injects liposome constructs into mice, selects and optimizes the resulting antibodies with the best characteristics, and adapts them to the human immune system. The resulting humanized monoclonal antibodies are administered to patients and have been shown to target misfolded proteins, such as Abeta. Morphomer® Accumulating knowledge has been used to focus the Morphomer chemical library to approximatively 10,000 CNS-optimized non-dye compounds with characteristics that make this library an ideal starting point when targeting human CNS proteinopathies. The Morphomer® platform combines small molecule chemistry with biological assays developed in-house, assisted by the latest information technology. This platform enables identification and development of small molecule Morphomers that target pathological protein aggregates in extra- and intracellular brain compartments. The Morphomer® technology was used to identify and accelerate development of multiple diagnostic and drug-like CNS compounds advancing in our growing pipeline, including: PI-2620, a Tau-positron emission tomography (PET)-tracer in development with collaboration partner Life Molecular Imaging; ACI-12589, our wholly owned novel alpha-synuclein PET-tracer designed to detect alpha-synuclein in patients with Parkinson’s disease and other alpha-synucleinopathies; and ACI-3024, a small molecule Tau aggregation inhibitor partnered with Eli Lilly and Company. More on Morphomer® Immunostained a-syn aggregates (red) forming within cortical neurons (green) in culture. Average PI-2620 distribution volume ratio (DVR) binding maps in PSP-RS (Richardson syndrome progressive supranuclear palsy), PSP-non-RS (Progressive supranuclear palsy not of the Richardson syndrome type), a-syn (probable a-synucleinopathies), AD (Alzheimer’s disease), HC (healthy control). PI-2620 shows high selectivity for pathological Tau aggregates when comparing to HC or to a-synuclein subjects. Ref.: Brendel et al., JAMA Neurol., 2020 Positioned for Precision Medicine AC Immune’s deep mechanistic understanding is perhaps best illustrated by our track record on one protein target, Tau, for which we have 4 candidates in clinical development. AC Immune has established revenue generating collaborations around all four Tau-targeted programs: anti-phosphoTau vaccine (Janssen Pharmaceuticals) Morphomer Tau small molecule aggregation inhibitors (Eli Lilly & Co.) anti-Tau monoclonal antibody semorinemab (Genentech, a member of the Roche group) Tau-PET-tracer PI-2620 (Life Molecular Imaging, LMI) Several of these assets are first-in-class with all having best-in-class potential in a highly competitive race to bring Tau-targeting therapeutics and diagnostics to patients. Semorinemab anti-pTau vaccine Morphomer® Tau PI-2620 Alzheimer’s disease Alzheimer’s disease Alzheimer’s disease, NeuroOrphan Alzheimer’s disease, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy Cash received: Cash received: Cash received: Cash received: CHF 59 million CHF 31 million CHF 170 million EUR 7.5 million THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Alzheimer’s disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease leading to dementia and a major focus of AC Immune. In recent years, as our pipeline has grown, we have diversified to develop product candidates targeting Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan diseases. Read more PIONEERING PRECISION MEDICINE AC Immune develops the tools to enable detection and clearance of pathological proteins underlying neurodegenerative diseases. Identifying and targeting these misfolded proteins and related pathways in each patient will be key to achieving best possible efficacy. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS Home Our Science Scientific Publications Latest AC Immune Publication An Amyloid beta (Abeta) vaccine that safely drives immunity to a key pathological species in Alzheimer’s disease: pyroglutamate Abeta M. Vukicevic, E. Fiorini, S. Siegert, R. Carpintero, M. Rincon, P. Lopez-Deber, N. Piot, M. Ayer, I. Rentero, C. Babolin, S. Bravo-Veyrat, V. Giriens, C. Morici, M. Beuzelin, A. Gesbert, S. Rivot, S. Depretti, P. Donati, J. Streffer, A. Pfeifer, M. H. Kosco-Vilbois Preclinical results of our wholly owned anti-Abeta vaccine program ACI-24 show that the optimized formulation generates a potent and sustained immune response. Antibodies showed binding to pyroglutamate Abeta, a highly neurotoxic form of Abeta, which, following recent proof-of-concept from a monoclonal antibody, is a promising target for Alzheimer therapy. Brain Communications, https://doi.org/10.1093/braincomms/fcac022 Published: 04 February 2022 AC IMMUNE'S SCIENTIFIC PUBLICATIONS Publications Conference presentations 20/02/2023 Afroz T et al., Neurobiology of Disease, 2023 Immunotherapy targeting the C-terminal domain of TDP-43 decreases neuropathology and confers neuroprotection in mouse models of ALS/FTD Afroz T, Chevalier E, Audrain M, Dumayne C, Ziehm T, Moser R, Egesipe AL, Mottier L, Ratnam M, Neumann M, Havas D, Ollier R, Piorkowska K, Chauhan M, Silva AB, Thapa S, Stöhr J, Bavdek A, Eligert V, Adolfsson O, Nelson PT, Porta S, Lee VMY, Pfeifer A, Kosco-Vilbois M, Seredenina T   Read More 24/12/2022 Njavro JR et al., Cells, 2023, 12, 79 Beneficial Effect of ACI-24 Vaccination on Aβ Plaque Pathology and Microglial Phenotypes in an Amyloidosis Mouse Model Rudan Njavro J, Vukicevic M, Fiorini E, Dinkel L, Müller S.A., Berghofer A, Bordier C, Kozlov S, Halle A, Buschmann K, Capell A, Giudici C, Willem M, Feederle R, Lichtenthaler S.F., Babolin C, Montanari P, Pfeifer A, Kosco-Vilbois M, Tahirovic S   Read More 09/05/2022 Rafii M et al., JAMA Neurology, 2022 Safety, Tolerability, and Immunogenicity of the ACI-24 Vaccine in Adults With Down Syndrome: A Phase 1b Randomized Clinical Trial Rafii MS, Sol O, Mobley WC, Delpretti S, Skotko BG, Burke AD, Sabbagh MN, Yuan SH, Rissman RA, Pulsifer M, Evans C, Carol Evans A, Beth G, Fournier N, Gray JA, Melo dos Santos A, Hliva V, Vukicevic M, Kosco-Vilbois M, Streffer J, Pfeifer A, Feldman HH View full publication 04/02/2022 Vukicevic M et al., Brain Communications, 2022 An Amyloid beta (Abeta) vaccine that safely drives immunity to a key pathological species in Alzheimer’s disease: pyroglutamate Abeta Vukicevic M, Fiorini E, Siegert S, Carpintero R, Rincon M, Lopez-Deber P, Piot N,  Ayer M, Rentero I, Babolin C, Bravo-Veyrat S, Giriens V, Morici C, Beuzelin M, Gesbert A, Rivot S, Depretti S, Donati P, Streffer J, Pfeifer A, Kosco-Vilbois MH View full publication 15/12/2021 Kroth H et al., Bioorg. Med. Chem., 2021 Structure-activity relationship around PI-2620 highlights the importance of the nitrogen atom position in the tricyclic core Kroth H, Oden F, Serra AM, Molette J, Mueller A, Berndt M, Capotosti F, Gabellieri E, Schmitt-Willich H, Hickman D, Pfeifer A, Dinkelberg L, Stephens A View full publication 29/08/2021 Kroth H et al., J. Med. Chem. 2021 PI-2620 lead optimization highlights the importance of off-target assays to develop a pet tracer for the detection of pathological aggregated tau in Alzheimer’s disease and other tauopathies Kroth H, Oden F, Molette J, Schieferstein H, Gabellieri E, Mueller A, Berndt M, Sreenivasachary N, Serra AM, Capotosti F, Schmitt-Willich H, Hickman D, Pfeifer A, Dinkelborg L, and Stephens A View full publication 12/05/2021 Ayalon G et al., Sci. Transl. Med., 2021 Antibody semorinemab reduces tau pathology in a transgenic mouse model and engages tau in patients with Alzheimer's disease Ayalon G, Lee S-H, Adolfsson O, Foo-Atkins C, Atwal JK, Blendstrup M,  Booler H, Bravo J, Brendza R, Brunstein F, Chan R, Chandra P, Couch JA, Datwani A, Demeule B, DiCara D, Erickson R, Ernst JA, Foreman O, He D, Hötzel I, Keeley M, Kwok MCM, Lafrance-Vanasse J, Lin H, Lu Y,  Luk W, Manser P, Muhs A, Ngu H, Pfeifer A, Pihlgren M, Rao GK, Scearce-Levie K, Schauer SP, Smith WB, Solanoy H, Teng E, Wildsmith KR, Bumbaca Yadav  D, Ying Y, Fuji RN, Kerchner GA View full publication 15/10/2020 Gabellieri E et al. , Eur. J. Med. Chem., 2020 Discovery of 2-(4-(2-fluoroethoxy)piperidin-1-yl)-9-methyl-9H-pyrrolo[2,3-b:4,5-c']dipyridine ([18F]PI-2014) as PET tracer for the detection of pathological aggregated Tau in Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies Gabellieri E, Capotosti F, Molette J, Sreenivasachary N, Mueller A, Berndt M, Schieferstein H, Juergens T, Varisco Y, Oden F, Schmitt-Willich H, Hickman D, Dinkelborg L, Stephens A, Pfeifer A, Kroth H View full publication 11/11/2019 Bullich S et al., J. Nucl. Med., 2019 Evaluation of dosimetry, quantitative methods and test-retest variability of 18F-PI-2620 PET for the assessment of Tau deposits in the human brain Bullich S, Barret O, Constantinescu C, Sandiego C, Mueller A, Papin C, Perrotin A, Koglin N, Kroth H, Pfeifer A, Madonia J, Seiby JP, Marek K, de Santi, Dinkelborg LM, Berndt M, Tamagnan G, Stephens AW View full publication 11/11/2019 Mueller A et al., J. Nucl. Med., 2019 Tau PET imaging with 18F-PI-2620 in patients with Alzheimer's disease and healthy controls: a first-in-human study Mueller A, Bullich S, Barret O, Madonia J, Berndt M, Papin C, Perrotin A, Koglin N, Kroth H, Pfeifer A, Tamagnan G, Seibyl JP, Marek K, de Santi S, Dinkelborg LM, Stephens AW View full publication 20/09/2019 Sreenivasachary N et al., Org. Process Res. Dev., 2019 A Short Synthesis of the 2-Bromo-N,9-dimethyl-6,7,8,9-tetrahydro-5H-pyrido[2,3-b]indol-6-amine Building Block Sreenivasachary N, Kroth H, Benderitter P, Barth W, Pfeifer A, Muhs A View full publication 01/07/2019 Kroth H et al., Eur. J. Nucl. Med. Mol. Imaging , 2019 Discovery and preclinical characterization of [18F]PI-2620, a next-generation tau PET tracer for the assessment of tau pathology in Alzheimer’s disease and other tauopathies Kroth H, Oden F, Molette J, Schieferstein H, Capotosti F, Mueller A, Berndt M, Schmitt-Willich H, Darmency V, Gabellieri E, Boudou C, Juergens T, Varisco Y, Vokali E, Hickman DT, Tamagnan G, Pfeifer A, Dinkelborg L, Muhs A, Stephens AW View full publication 13/11/2018 Chen H-H et al., Scientific Reports, 2018 Calpain-mediated tau fragmentation is altered in Alzheimer’s disease progression Hsu-Hsin Chen, Peter Liu, Paul Auger, Seung-Hye Lee, Oskar Adolfsson, Lorianne Rey-Bellet, Julien Lafrance-Vanasse, Brad A. Friedman, Maria Pihlgren, Andreas Muhs, Andrea Pfeifer, James Ernst, Gai Ayalon, Kristin R. Wildsmith, Thomas G. Beach & Marcel P. van der Brug View full publication 19/10/2017 Lathuilière A et al., Scientific Reports, 2017 Motifs in the tau protein that control binding to microtubules and aggregation determine pathological effects Aurélien Lathuilière, Pamela Valdés, Stéphanie Papin, Matthias Cacquevel, Catherine Maclachlan, Graham W. Knott, Andreas Muhs, Paolo Paganetti, Bernard L. Schneider View full publication 15/03/2017 Sreenivasachary N et al., Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters, 2017 Discovery and characterization of novel indole and 7-azaindole derivatives as inhibitors of β-amyloid-42 aggregation for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease Nampally Sreenivasachary, Heiko Kroth, Pascal Benderitter, Anne Hamel, Yvan Varisco, David T. Hickman, Wolfgang Froestl, Andrea Pfeifer, Andreas Muhs View full publication 20/12/2016 Ultsch M et al., Scientific Reports, 2016 Structure of Crenezumab Complex with Aβ Shows Loss of β-Hairpin Mark Ultsch, Bing Li, Till Maurer, Mary Mathieu, Oskar Adolfsson, Andreas Muhs, Andrea Pfeifer, Maria Pihlgren, Travis W. Bainbridge, Mike Reichelt, James A. Ernst, Charles Eigenbrot, Germaine Fuh, Jasvinder K. Atwal, Ryan J. Watts, Weiru Wang View full publication 02/11/2016 Theunis C et al., J. Alzheimer. Dis., 2016 Novel Phospho-Tau Monoclonal Antibody Generated Using a Liposomal Vaccine, with Enhanced Recognition of a Conformational Tauopathy Epitope Clara Theunis, Oskar Adolfsson, Natalia Crespo-Biel, Kasia Piorkowska, Maria Pihlgren, David T. Hickman, Valerie Gafner, Peter Borghgraef, Herman Devijver, Andrea Pfeifer, Fred Van Leuven, Andreas Muhs View full publication 09/08/2016 Lee S-H et al., Cell Reports, 2016 Antibody-mediated targeting of Tau in vivo does not require effector function and microglial engagement Seung-Hye Lee, Claire E. Le Pichon, Oskar Adolfsson, Valerie Gafner, Maria Pihlgren, Han Lin,Hilda Solanoy, Robert Brendza, Hai Ngu, Oded Foreman, Ruby Chan,James A. Ernst, Danielle DiCara, Isidro Hotzel, Karpagam Srinivasan, David V. Hansen, Jasvinder Atwal, Yanmei Lu, Daniela Bumbaca, Andrea Pfeifer, Ryan J. Watts, Andreas Muhs, Kimberly Scearce-Levie and Gai Ayalon View full publication 15/07/2016 Kroth H et al., Bioorganic & Medicinal Chemistry Letters, 2016 Synthesis and structure–activity relationship of 2,6-disubstituted pyridine derivatives as inhibitors of b-amyloid-42 aggregation Heiko Kroth, Nampally Sreenivasachary, Anne Hamel, Pascal Benderitter, Yvan Varisco, Valérie Giriens, Paolo Paganetti, Wolfgang Froestl, Andrea Pfeifer, Andreas Muhs View full publication 29/03/2016 Belichenko PV et al., PLOS one, 2016 An Anti-Beta-Amyloid Vaccine for Treating Cognitive Deficits in a Mouse Model of Down Syndrome Pavel V. Belichenko, Rime Madani, Lorianne Rey-Bellet, Maria Pihlgren, Ann Becker, Adeline Plassard, Stephanie Vuillermot, Valérie Giriens, Rachel L. Nosheny, Alexander M. Kleschevnikov, Janice S. Valletta, Sara K. S. Bengtsson, Gordon R. Linke, Michael T. Maloney, David T. Hickman, Pedro Reis, Anne Granet, Dorin Mlaki, Maria Pilar Lopez-Deber, Long Do, Nishant Singhal, Eliezer Masliah, Matthew L. Pearn, Andrea Pfeifer, Andreas Muhs, William C. Mobley View full publication 13/10/2015 Devraj K et al., JCBFM, 2015 BACE-1 is expressed in the blood - brain barrier endothelium and is upregulated in a murine model of Alzheimer's disease Kavi Devraj, Slobodan Poznanovic, Christoph Spahn, Gerhard Schwall, Patrick N Harter, Michel Mittelbronn, Katia Antoniello, Paolo Paganetti, Andreas Muhs, Mike Heilemann, Richard A Hawkins, André Schrattenholz, Stefan Liebner View full publication 05/11/2014 Mlaki Ndao D et al., BioProtocol, 2014 Binding Affinity Measurement of Antibodies from Crude Hybridoma Samples by SPR Dorin Mlaki Ndao, David T. Hickman, María Pilar López-Deber, Aurélien Davranche, Andrea Pfeifer, Andreas Muhs View full publication 10/09/2014 Lopez Deber MP et al., PLoS One, 2014 Engineering Amyloid-Like Assemblies from Unstructured Peptides via Site-Specific Lipid Conjugation Maria Pilar Lopez Deber, David T. Hickman, Deepak Nand , Marc Baldus, Andrea Pfeifer, Andreas Muhs View full publication 25/07/2014 Froestl W et al., Journal of Alzheimer's disease, 2014 Cognitive enhancers (Nootropics). Part 1: drugs interacting with receptors Froestl W, Muhs A, Pfeifer A View full publication 25/03/2014 Froestl W et al., Journal of Alzheimer's disease, 2014 Cognitive enhancers (nootropics). Part 2: drugs interacting with enzymes Froestl W, Muhs A, Pfeifer A View full publication 21/10/2013 Papassotiropoulos A et al., PNAS, 2013 Human genome-guided identification of memory-modulating drugs Papassotiropoulos A, Gerhards C, Heck A, Ackermann S, Aerni A, Schicktanz N, Auschra B, Demougin P, Mumme E, Elbert T, Ertl V, Gschwind L, Hanser E, Huynh KD, Jessen F, Kolassa IT, Milnik A, Paganetti P, Spalek K, Vogler C, Muhs A, Pfeifer A, de Quervain DJ View full publication 23/08/2013 Koers E et al., Angewandte Chemie International Edition, 2013 Dynamic nuclear polarization NMR spectroscopy: revealing multiple conformations in lipid-anchored peptide vaccines Koers E, López-Deber MP, Weingarth M, Nand D, Hickman DT, Mlaki Ndao D, Reis P, Granet A, Pfeifer A, Muhs A, Baldus M View full publication 19/08/2013 Theunis C et al., PLoS One, 2013 Efficacy and Safety of A Liposome-Based Vaccine against Protein Tau, Assessed in Tau.P301L Mice That Model Tauopathy Theunis C, Crespo-Biel N, Gafner V, Pihlgren M, Lopez-Deber P, Reis P, Hickman D, Adolfsson O, Chuard N, Mlaki Ndao D, Borghgraef P, Devijver H, Van Leuven F, Pfeifer A, Muhs A View full publication 06/08/2013 Paganetti P et al., J. Alzheimers Dis., 2014 Increased efflux of amyloid-β peptides through the blood-brain barrier by muscarinic acetylcholine receptor inhibition reduces pathological phenotypes in mouse models of brain amyloidosis Paganetti P, Antoniello K, Devraj K, Toni N, Kieran D, Madani R, Pihlgren M, Adolfsson O, Froestl W, Schrattenholz A, Liebner S, Havas D, Windisch M, Cirrito JR, Pfeifer A, Muhs A View full publication 06/02/2013 Froestl W et al., Journal of Alzheimer's disease, 2013 Cognitive enhancers (Nootropics). Part 3: drugs interacting with targets other than receptors or enzymes. Disease-modifying drugs. Froestl W, Muhs A, Pfeifer A View full publication 03/01/2013 Pihlgren M et al., Blood, 2013 TLR4 and TRIF-dependent stimulation of B lymphocytes by peptide liposomes enables T-cell independent isotype switch in mice Pihlgren M, Silva AB, Madani R, Giriens V, Waeckerle-Men Y, Fettelschloss A, Hickman D, Lopez-Deper MP, Mlaki Ndao D, Vukicevic M, Bucarello AL, Gafner V, Chuard N, Reis P, Piorkowska K, Pfeifer A, Kündig TM, Muhs A, Johansen P View full publication AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search ADDRESSING ALZHEIMER’S, PARKINSON’S AND OTHER NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES AC IMMUNE’S ROBUST PIPELINE Based on our SupraAntigen® and Morphomer® technology platforms, we are advancing one of the industry’s broadest and most diverse clinical-stage pipelines focused on neurodegenerative diseases.  We design first- and best-in-class therapeutic and diagnostic candidates to tackle established and novel disease targets enabling AC Immune’s comprehensive precision medicine approach. CLINICAL STAGE PROGRAMS TARGET PRODUCT CANDIDATE INDICATION DISCOVERY PRECLINICAL PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PARTNER Tau ACI‑35.030 anti-pTau vaccine Alzheimer's disease Semorinemab anti-Tau antibody Alzheimer's disease (mild-to-moderate)1 Morphomer® Tau aggregation inhibitors Rare Tauopathies Alzheimer's disease PI‑2620 Tau-PET2 tracer Alzheimer's disease PSP3 diagnostic Abeta Crenezumab anti-Abeta antibody Alzheimer's prevention 4 ACI‑24 anti-Abeta vaccine Alzheimer's disease (Down syndrome5) Alzheimer's disease alpha-synuclein ACI‑7104 anti-a-syn vaccine Parkinson's disease, alpha-synucleinopathies ACI‑12589 a-syn-PET tracer Parkinson's disease, alpha-synucleinopathies (1) Open label extension study is ongoing; (2) Positron emission tomography; (3) Progressive supranuclear palsy; (4) Prevention trial API-ADAD in Colombia; (5) Down syndrome-related AD Biologic Small Molecule Diagnostic Download NOVEL TARGETS PIPELINE TARGET PRODUCT CANDIDATE INDICATION DISCOVERY PRECLINICAL PHASE 1 PHASE 2 alpha-synuclein Anti‑a‑syn antibody Parkinson's disease, NeuroOrphan Morphomer® a‑syn aggregation inhibitor Parkinson's disease, alpha-synucleinopathies TDP-43 Anti‑TDP‑432 antibody LATE3, NeuroOrphan TDP‑43‑PET tracer TDP-43-opathies Inflammasome Anti‑NLRP34‑ASC5 antibody NeuroOrphan Morphomer® NLRP3‑ASC NeuroOrphan Morphomer® NLRP3‑ASC Non-CNS (1) Parkinson's disease; (2) TAR DNA-binding protein 43; (3) Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy; (4) (NOD)-like receptor protein 3; (5) Apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD, also PYCARD Biologic Small Molecule Diagnostic Download CLINICAL TRIALS AC Immune’s clinically validated technology platforms generate potentially first- and best-in-class vaccines, antibodies, small molecules and diagnostics. These include several Phase 2 programs and will yield a total of seven clinical data readouts in 2022. Read more THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Alzheimer’s disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease leading to dementia and a major focus of AC Immune. In recent years, as our pipeline has grown, we have diversified to develop product candidates targeting Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan diseases. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Home Our Pipeline Therapeutic focus DEDICATED TO MAKING A DIFFERENCE IN PEOPLE'S LIVES Misfolded proteins – an overarching target Alzheimer’s disease Parkinson’s disease LATE NeuroOrphan Neuroinflammation Today, over 50 million people are living with dementia, Parkinson’s disease affects over 6 million people worldwide and neurological orphan, or NeuroOrphan, diseases, collectively affect more than 8 million people in the U.S alone. Our goal is to develop treatments and preventive strategies that will make a difference in the lives of patients, their families and caregivers. AC Immune is pioneering precision medicine for neurodegenerative diseases and advancing a broad portfolio of vaccines, antibodies and small molecules to allow tailoring of the best combination of modalities to each patient’s diagnostic profile. Our diagnostic candidates promise to empower reliable and refined diagnosis based on well-defined biomarkers. This approach is enabled by our clinically validated technology platforms, SupraAntigen® and Morphomer®, which generate sensitive diagnostics, highly specific biologics and small molecule drugs. The drug candidates are selected to distinguish normal from pathological proteins and inhibit key disease pathways both inside and outside of cells. We believe that, beyond targeted monotherapies, combination therapy will offer greater efficacy in treating the broad spectrum of pathologies. MISFOLDED PROTEINS – AN OVERARCHING TARGET In the healthy brain, normal folding and unfolding of proteins regulate essential biological processes. When incorrect protein folding, or misfolding, occurs, proteins change their shape and become more prone to aggregation and form insoluble deposits within and around neurons. The progression of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease, is closely linked to the spread and aggregation of pathological misfolded proteins throughout the brain. These become toxic to brain cells and damage neurons. Progressively their accumulation can lead to the impairment of function, cognition and, in some diseases, movement. To successfully treat neurodegenerative diseases, we need technologies to detect misfolded proteins and treatments to prevent aggregation, inhibit spreading and clear aggregates. These treatments would ideally be used at pre-symptomatic stages, because the earlier we intervene, the better our chances of preserving the patient’s function. Each disease has a specific protein (or set of proteins) that can undergo structural changes and form insoluble aggregates. Addressing this complexity is what motivates AC Immune’s pursuit of precision and combination medicine approaches to target the right protein at the right time. ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE Alzheimer’s disease is the most common form of dementia and may contribute 60–70% of cases, with an estimated global patient population of approximately 55 million people in 2019. This is predicted to increase to 139 million by 2050. The annual global cost of dementia is now above USD 1.3 trillion and expected to rise to US$ 2.8 trillion by 2050. 55 MILLION people worldwide living with dementia 10 MILLION new cases of dementia each year worldwide 2/3 OF PEOPLE of people living with Alzheimer’s are women 75 % with dementia are not diagnosed (globally) Alzheimer’s develops because of a complex cascade of events that take place in the brain over a long period of time. Two proteins – Tau and amyloid beta (Abeta) – are recognized as hallmarks of Alzheimer’s. Abnormal species of Tau aggregate into tangles, while plaques and oligomers are formed by Abeta. Both spread throughout the brain and can be found in 70–80% of Alzheimer’s patients. Furthermore, the severity of cognitive impairment correlates with the presence of Tau tangles. AC Immune is targeting both proteins, Abeta and Tau, with multiple candidates such as monoclonal antibodies (crenezumab and semorinemab, respectively), our Morphomer® Tau small molecule aggregation inhibitor, and vaccines (ACI-24 and ACI-35 programs, respectively) and is advancing a Tau-Positron Emission Tomography (PET) tracer. PARKINSON’S DISEASE Parkinson’s disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease with over 6 million people living with Parkinson’s disease worldwide. It affects predominantly dopamine-producing neurons and leads to movement-related (“motor”) symptoms but can also result in symptoms that are unrelated to movement (“non-motor”). Progression of the disease tends to be slow and variable: prominent symptoms include tremor, rigidity and slowness of movement. Patients have gait and balance problems, trouble walking and talking, but can also show mental and behavioural changes, sleep problems, depression, memory difficulties, and fatigue. >6 MILLION people worldwide living with Parkinson’s >10 MILLION people affected by a-synucleinopathies globally Alpha-synuclein (a-syn) misfolding, aggregation and seeding are the molecular basis for the formation of Lewy bodies, the hallmark aggregates in Parkinson’s disease. A-syn is a priority target for development of therapeutics and diagnostics in Parkinson’s, and its accumulation is a common cause of dementia and movement disorders, such as Lewy body dementia, multiple system atrophy, and other a-synucleinopathies. It is estimated that over 10 million people worldwide suffer from these conditions. Currently, there are no specific tests to diagnose or differentiate a-synucleinopathies, and diagnosis is still based on medical history and clinical symptoms. AC Immune is developing a first-in-class a-syn-PET tracer for reliable and accurate diagnosis of Parkinson’s disease and other a-synucleinopathies. Therapeutic, potentially disease-modifying, candidates include our clinically validated anti-a-syn vaccine (ACI-7104) as well as anti-a-syn antibodies and Morphomer® small molecule aggregation inhibitors. LATE Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy (LATE) is a recently characterized and common neurodegenerative disorder of elderly adults, estimated to affect approximately 20–50% of people over the age of 80. Patients have cognitive impairment, usually an amnesic dementia comparable to Alzheimer disease, although not driven by Abeta or Tau. TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) has been identified as the primary protein pathology of LATE. In its physiological state, TDP-43 regulates gene transcription. In TDP-43 proteinopathies, misfolding of the protein leads to insoluble TDP-43 aggregates resulting in cellular dysfunction and eventually, clinical symptoms. The presence of TDP-43 pathology has also been detected in other neurodegenerative diseases (including Alzheimer’s) in the form of a co-pathology, and is thought to exacerbate the observed clinical symptoms. Precise molecular diagnosis and differentiation of brain deposits at early stages might enable a fundamental change in diagnosis and targeted treatment of TDP-43 proteinopathies. AC Immune is developing a TDP-43-PET imaging tracer and anti-TDP-43 antibodies. NEUROORPHAN In the U.S., an orphan disease is defined as a condition affecting fewer than 200,000 people nationwide. In the European Union, a rare disease is a condition with a prevalence below 5 in 10,000 people. Similarly, NeuroOrphan indications are rare diseases of the neurological system such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), multiple system atrophy (MSA) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD), and sub-populations of argyrophilic grain disease and Lewy Body Dementia. 20K patients affected by PSP in the U.S. 15-30K patients affected by ALS in the U.S. 15-50K patients affected by MSA in the U.S. 20-30K patients affected by FTLD in the U.S. There is a high unmet need for these indications, as for most no effective treatment or reliable diagnostic tests are available. Tau and alpha-synuclein have been identified as contributing to several of these NeuroOrphan diseases. TDP-43 is a recently identified target of growing interest for FTLD and ALS. We believe that our precision medicine approach can be expanded into NeuroOrphan indications. Our first-in-class imaging tracers are well positioned to allow reliable differentiation between conditions that often have overlapping clinical symptoms. Several therapeutic candidates from our broad portfolio could be used to address the identified target. Our Tau-PET tracer PI-2620 is tested in PSP and CBD for its ability to bind 4-repeat (4R) Tau isoforms, while the first-in-class PET tracers for a-syn and TDP-43 could become the first diagnostics to reliably diagnose MSA or ALS. From our therapeutics portfolio, AC Immune’s Tau Morphomer® small molecule aggregation inhibitor program is evaluated in rare human Tauopathies. We are also advancing our TDP-43-targeting therapeutics in specific NeuroOrphan indications. NEURO- INFLAMMATION In the brain, microglial cells maintain a healthy environment by removing damaged cells and misfolded protein aggregates. When overstimulated in a diseased brain, microglia can drive neurological inflammation and accelerate disease progression. A key molecular pathway activated in neurodegenerative and other diseases, is the NLRP3 (NOD-like receptor protein 3) inflammasome pathway and a critical component of this pathway is ASC (apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a C-terminal caspase recruitment domain). It is formed and released by activated microglia, and activation of the NLRP3-ASC inflammasome pathway has been shown to exacerbate neuronal damage and promote further neurodegeneration. ASC specks can be detected in the central nervous system (CNS) of patients with neurodegenerative diseases and pathological species of Abeta, Tau, a-syn and TDP-43 induce NLRP3 inflammasome activation and ASC speck formation. Because of the broad role of this pathway across a number of diseases, NLRP3 and ASC have emerged as attractive and highly valued molecular targets to modulate certain pathological inflammatory responses. AC Immune is developing multiple small molecule and antibody-based candidates with the potential to inhibit the NLRP3 pathway in CNS and non-CNS indications. CLINICAL TRIALS AC Immune’s clinically validated technology platforms generate potentially first- and best-in-class vaccines, antibodies, small molecules and diagnostics. These include several Phase 2 programs and will yield a total of seven clinical data readouts in 2022. Read more PIONEERING PRECISION MEDICINE AC Immune develops the tools to enable detection and clearance of pathological proteins underlying neurodegenerative diseases. Identifying and targeting these misfolded proteins and related pathways in each patient will be key to achieving best possible efficacy. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search CLINICAL TRIALS Home Our Pipeline Clinical Trials Developing strategies for preserving quality of life AC Immune is advancing one of the broadest product portfolios focused on pioneering precision medicine for neurodegenerative diseases. Leveraging our proprietary technology platforms, Morphomer® and SupraAntigen®, we are pursuing multiple therapeutic modalities in parallel by advancing diagnostics, antibodies, small molecules and vaccines targeting carefully selected therapeutic targets: amyloid beta (Abeta), Tau, alpha-synuclein (a-syn), TDP-43 and (NOD)-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3). We believe adaptive biomarker-based trial designs provide the necessary flexibility in an increasingly dynamic regulatory environment and shorten the time from bench to bedside for our diagnostics and therapeutic candidates. If you are interested in participating in one of our clinical trials or would like more information, we recommend you first discuss it with your medical doctor to provide guidance related to your specific situation. anti-pTau vaccine in Alzheimer's disease Description Summary In collaboration with Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., AC Immune is advancing the anti-phospho-Tau vaccine candidate in subjects with early Alzheimer’s disease. It targets phosphorylated Tau proteins, a key component of the Alzheimer’s pathology that is found in Tau tangles, its aggregated form. Interim results showed that vaccination with ACI-35.030 generates a potent antigen-specific antibody response against phospho-Tau (Streffer J. et al., CTAD 2021). The Phase 1b/2a study is a randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study with a primary objective to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of different doses of ACI-35.030 in patients with early Alzheimer’s disease. Secondary objectives assess additional immunogenicity parameters. Other endpoints will assess clinical and cognitive parameters as well as additional immunogenicity and safety parameters. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04445831 anti-Abeta vaccine in Down Syndrome Description Summary Our wholly owned anti-Abeta vaccine candidate ACI-24 is designed to stimulate the immune system to produce antibodies that specifically target misfolded Abeta, prevent accumulation and enhance the clearance of amyloid plaques. This Phase 1b clinical study of ACI-24 in people living with Down syndrome was a prospective multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized study to assess the effect of one dose of ACI-24 versus placebo over a 74-week treatment period and 26-week safety follow-up period. It assessed safety, tolerability and immunogenicity. The results were presented at the 2021 AAIC conference and demonstrated a favorable safety and tolerability profile of ACI-24 supporting the advancement of this program with an optimized formulation of ACI-24 (Rafii M. et al., AAIC, 2021). http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02738450 anti-Abeta vaccine in Alzheimer's disease Description Summary This Phase 2 trial analyzed the effects of the anti-Abeta vaccine candidate ACI-24 on brain amyloid levels assessed by PET imaging in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease. This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled adaptive design study assessed the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and target engagement of ACI-24 in mild Alzheimer’s disease. It was completed in 2021 and confirmed that ACI-24 was safe and well tolerated while triggering an immune response. There was evidence of a pharmacodynamic effect suggesting target engagement. The full study results were presented at CTAD 2021 (Sol O. et al., CTAD, 2021). http://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2018-000445-39 anti-Abeta vaccine in Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's disease in Down Syndrome Description Summary AC Immune is pursuing clinical development with ACI-24.060, an optimized formulation of ACI-24, which is intended to prime, boost and maintain a strong antibody response against key pathological Abeta species (including oligomeric and pyroglutamate Abeta; Vukicevic M. et al., Brain Communications, 2022). This Phase 1b/2 study will evaluate the vaccine candidate in early Alzheimer’s disease and the target population will consist of both patients with Alzheimer’s disease and people living with Down syndrome, with evidence of presence of brain amyloid pathology. This multicenter adaptive, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will assess the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and pharmacodynamic effects of ACI-24.060. Key outcome measures for the study will include assessments of safety, immunogenicity, pharmacodynamics, Abeta-PET imaging, and target engagement. anti-a-synuclein vaccine in Parkinson's disease Description Summary Our wholly owned candidate ACI-7104 is an optimized vaccine formulation designed to induce a-syn-specific antibodies recognizing aggregated a-syn species that are toxic to neurons. Building on the strong Phase 1 data of the predecessor vaccine (Volc D. et al., Lancet Neurol., 2020), ACI-7104 is advancing into an adaptive, biomarker-based Phase 2 study in early Parkinson’s disease. This Phase 2 study will transition seamlessly between two parts: in the first part, we will utilize biomarker-based interim analyses to tailor the dosing regimen and monitor the disease-specific biomarkers. In part two, the goal is to generate clinical proof-of-concept in early Parkinson’s disease and to monitor the progression of motor and non-motor symptoms, as well as digital, imaging, and fluid biomarkers. anti-Tau antibody in Alzheimer's disease Description Summary Partnered with Genentech, a member of the Roche group, semorinemab is designed to slow the spreading of Tau pathology, which correlates with clinical symptoms and disease progression in Alzheimer’s disease. A Phase 2 trial (TAURIEL) demonstrated safety, tolerability and target engagement but a lack of clinical effect in prodromal-to-mild Alzheimer’s disease (Teng E. et al., CTAD 2020). LAURIET, a Phase 2 study, is evaluating semorinemab in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. Top-line data showed a statistically significant reduction on one of two co-primary endpoints, ADAS-Cog11, providing the first positive cognitive results for an anti-Tau antibody therapy in Alzheimer’s disease. The second co-primary endpoint, ADCS-ADL, and secondary endpoints were not met. Semorinemab was well tolerated with no unanticipated safety signals. While the primary completion was accomplished in 2021, our partner Genentech reported that the open label portion of the study will continue as planned and that further analyses are ongoing. The Phase 2, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study is evaluating the clinical efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of semorinemab in 260 patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. The primary objectives were to assess cognitive function and functional capacities. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03828747 anti-Abeta antibody in Alzheimer's disease prevention Description Summary The API-ADAD (Alzheimer’s Prevention Initiative – Autosomal-Dominant Alzheimer’s disease) study is a landmark prevention trial providing the unique opportunity to evaluate crenezumab, our anti-Abeta antibody, as a preventative therapy. This is a collaboration between the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Banner Alzheimer’s Institute and Genentech, a member of the Roche group. The Phase 2 Alzheimer’s Prevention Initiative trial in Colombia is evaluating crenezumab in cognitively healthy individuals with an autosomal dominant PSEN1 E280A mutation, which puts them at high risk of developing familial Alzheimer’s disease. This study will determine whether treating people carrying this mutation with crenezumab prior to the onset of Alzheimer’s symptoms, can slow or prevent the decline of cognitive and functional abilities. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01998841 Morphomer® Tau small molecule aggregation inhibitors in Alzheimer's and NeuroOrphan diseases Description Summary In collaboration with our partner, Eli Lilly & Co., we are researching and developing small molecule Tau aggregation inhibitors with plans to evaluate candidates in Alzheimer’s disease and NeuroOrphan indications. In 2020, a Phase 1 clinical study in healthy volunteers was completed. It showed a dose-dependent exposure and brain penetration, achieving the desired levels of ACI-3024 in the CSF. In addition to Alzheimer’s disease, the program is planned to be expanded to NeuroOrphan indications and candidates will be further evaluated for efficacy in models of rare Tauopathies. Continued candidate characterization across the research program has also identified new and highly differentiated candidates with excellent cerebrospinal fluid exposure and selectivity for pathological aggregated Tau. These will be assessed for their further development in Tau-dependent neurodegenerative diseases. Tau-PET tracer in Alzheimer's and NeuroOrphan diseases Description Summary With our partner, Life Molecular Imaging (LMI), we are advancing PI-2620 as a best-in-class Tau diagnostic for Alzheimer’s disease as well as other disorders caused by misfolding Tau protein, so-called tauopathies. These include progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). PI-2620 demonstrated excellent characteristics potentially allowing for differentiation between 3/4R- and 4R-tauopathies and might serve as a supportive readout in the diagnostic workup of neurodegenerative disorders. PI-2620 completed a Phase 2 clinical trial in Alzheimer’s disease in 2021. Two test-retest studies in PSP (Phase 1) are currently ongoing. a-synuclein-PET tracer in Parkinson's and NeuroOrphan diseases Description Summary Our next-generation PET tracer has shown significant potential to reliably detect and map deposits of the pathological form of a-synuclein protein in the brain and was advanced into clinical development in 2021. Supported by the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, a First-in-Human study and an investigator-initiated study were begun in 2021 and evaluate the imaging tracer’s characteristics as a diagnostic tool in patients with Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy (MSA) and other a-synucleinopathies. ADDRESSING ALZHEIMER’S, PARKINSON’S AND OTHER NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES BROAD AND DIVERSIFIED PIPELINE FOCUSED ON NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES Our clinical stage pipeline uniquely integrates diagnostic and therapeutic candidates as well as different treatment modalities (such as antibodies, vaccines and small molecule drugs) against the most promising validated therapeutic targets. Read more THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Alzheimer’s disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease leading to dementia and a major focus of AC Immune. In recent years, as our pipeline has grown, we have diversified to develop product candidates targeting Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan diseases. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search CLINICAL TRIALS Home Our Pipeline Clinical Trials Developing strategies for preserving quality of life AC Immune is advancing one of the broadest product portfolios focused on pioneering precision medicine for neurodegenerative diseases. Leveraging our proprietary technology platforms, Morphomer® and SupraAntigen®, we are pursuing multiple therapeutic modalities in parallel by advancing diagnostics, antibodies, small molecules and vaccines targeting carefully selected therapeutic targets: amyloid beta (Abeta), Tau, alpha-synuclein (a-syn), TDP-43 and (NOD)-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3). We believe adaptive biomarker-based trial designs provide the necessary flexibility in an increasingly dynamic regulatory environment and shorten the time from bench to bedside for our diagnostics and therapeutic candidates. If you are interested in participating in one of our clinical trials or would like more information, we recommend you first discuss it with your medical doctor to provide guidance related to your specific situation. anti-pTau vaccine in Alzheimer's disease Description Summary In collaboration with Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc., AC Immune is advancing the anti-phospho-Tau vaccine candidate in subjects with early Alzheimer’s disease. It targets phosphorylated Tau proteins, a key component of the Alzheimer’s pathology that is found in Tau tangles, its aggregated form. Interim results showed that vaccination with ACI-35.030 generates a potent antigen-specific antibody response against phospho-Tau (Streffer J. et al., CTAD 2021). The Phase 1b/2a study is a randomized, multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study with a primary objective to assess the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of different doses of ACI-35.030 in patients with early Alzheimer’s disease. Secondary objectives assess additional immunogenicity parameters. Other endpoints will assess clinical and cognitive parameters as well as additional immunogenicity and safety parameters. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT04445831 anti-Abeta vaccine in Down Syndrome Description Summary Our wholly owned anti-Abeta vaccine candidate ACI-24 is designed to stimulate the immune system to produce antibodies that specifically target misfolded Abeta, prevent accumulation and enhance the clearance of amyloid plaques. This Phase 1b clinical study of ACI-24 in people living with Down syndrome was a prospective multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized study to assess the effect of one dose of ACI-24 versus placebo over a 74-week treatment period and 26-week safety follow-up period. It assessed safety, tolerability and immunogenicity. The results were presented at the 2021 AAIC conference and demonstrated a favorable safety and tolerability profile of ACI-24 supporting the advancement of this program with an optimized formulation of ACI-24 (Rafii M. et al., AAIC, 2021). http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02738450 anti-Abeta vaccine in Alzheimer's disease Description Summary This Phase 2 trial analyzed the effects of the anti-Abeta vaccine candidate ACI-24 on brain amyloid levels assessed by PET imaging in patients with mild Alzheimer’s disease. This double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled adaptive design study assessed the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and target engagement of ACI-24 in mild Alzheimer’s disease. It was completed in 2021 and confirmed that ACI-24 was safe and well tolerated while triggering an immune response. There was evidence of a pharmacodynamic effect suggesting target engagement. The full study results were presented at CTAD 2021 (Sol O. et al., CTAD, 2021). http://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2018-000445-39 anti-Abeta vaccine in Alzheimer's disease and Alzheimer's disease in Down Syndrome Description Summary AC Immune is pursuing clinical development with ACI-24.060, an optimized formulation of ACI-24, which is intended to prime, boost and maintain a strong antibody response against key pathological Abeta species (including oligomeric and pyroglutamate Abeta; Vukicevic M. et al., Brain Communications, 2022). This Phase 1b/2 study will evaluate the vaccine candidate in early Alzheimer’s disease and the target population will consist of both patients with Alzheimer’s disease and people living with Down syndrome, with evidence of presence of brain amyloid pathology. This multicenter adaptive, double-blind, placebo-controlled study will assess the safety, tolerability, immunogenicity and pharmacodynamic effects of ACI-24.060. Key outcome measures for the study will include assessments of safety, immunogenicity, pharmacodynamics, Abeta-PET imaging, and target engagement. anti-a-synuclein vaccine in Parkinson's disease Description Summary Our wholly owned candidate ACI-7104 is an optimized vaccine formulation designed to induce a-syn-specific antibodies recognizing aggregated a-syn species that are toxic to neurons. Building on the strong Phase 1 data of the predecessor vaccine (Volc D. et al., Lancet Neurol., 2020), ACI-7104 is advancing into an adaptive, biomarker-based Phase 2 study in early Parkinson’s disease. This Phase 2 study will transition seamlessly between two parts: in the first part, we will utilize biomarker-based interim analyses to tailor the dosing regimen and monitor the disease-specific biomarkers. In part two, the goal is to generate clinical proof-of-concept in early Parkinson’s disease and to monitor the progression of motor and non-motor symptoms, as well as digital, imaging, and fluid biomarkers. anti-Tau antibody in Alzheimer's disease Description Summary Partnered with Genentech, a member of the Roche group, semorinemab is designed to slow the spreading of Tau pathology, which correlates with clinical symptoms and disease progression in Alzheimer’s disease. A Phase 2 trial (TAURIEL) demonstrated safety, tolerability and target engagement but a lack of clinical effect in prodromal-to-mild Alzheimer’s disease (Teng E. et al., CTAD 2020). LAURIET, a Phase 2 study, is evaluating semorinemab in mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. Top-line data showed a statistically significant reduction on one of two co-primary endpoints, ADAS-Cog11, providing the first positive cognitive results for an anti-Tau antibody therapy in Alzheimer’s disease. The second co-primary endpoint, ADCS-ADL, and secondary endpoints were not met. Semorinemab was well tolerated with no unanticipated safety signals. While the primary completion was accomplished in 2021, our partner Genentech reported that the open label portion of the study will continue as planned and that further analyses are ongoing. The Phase 2, multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group study is evaluating the clinical efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of semorinemab in 260 patients with mild-to-moderate Alzheimer’s disease. The primary objectives were to assess cognitive function and functional capacities. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03828747 anti-Abeta antibody in Alzheimer's disease prevention Description Summary The API-ADAD (Alzheimer’s Prevention Initiative – Autosomal-Dominant Alzheimer’s disease) study is a landmark prevention trial providing the unique opportunity to evaluate crenezumab, our anti-Abeta antibody, as a preventative therapy. This is a collaboration between the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the Banner Alzheimer’s Institute and Genentech, a member of the Roche group. The Phase 2 Alzheimer’s Prevention Initiative trial in Colombia is evaluating crenezumab in cognitively healthy individuals with an autosomal dominant PSEN1 E280A mutation, which puts them at high risk of developing familial Alzheimer’s disease. This study will determine whether treating people carrying this mutation with crenezumab prior to the onset of Alzheimer’s symptoms, can slow or prevent the decline of cognitive and functional abilities. http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01998841 Morphomer® Tau small molecule aggregation inhibitors in Alzheimer's and NeuroOrphan diseases Description Summary In collaboration with our partner, Eli Lilly & Co., we are researching and developing small molecule Tau aggregation inhibitors with plans to evaluate candidates in Alzheimer’s disease and NeuroOrphan indications. In 2020, a Phase 1 clinical study in healthy volunteers was completed. It showed a dose-dependent exposure and brain penetration, achieving the desired levels of ACI-3024 in the CSF. In addition to Alzheimer’s disease, the program is planned to be expanded to NeuroOrphan indications and candidates will be further evaluated for efficacy in models of rare Tauopathies. Continued candidate characterization across the research program has also identified new and highly differentiated candidates with excellent cerebrospinal fluid exposure and selectivity for pathological aggregated Tau. These will be assessed for their further development in Tau-dependent neurodegenerative diseases. Tau-PET tracer in Alzheimer's and NeuroOrphan diseases Description Summary With our partner, Life Molecular Imaging (LMI), we are advancing PI-2620 as a best-in-class Tau diagnostic for Alzheimer’s disease as well as other disorders caused by misfolding Tau protein, so-called tauopathies. These include progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal degeneration (CBD). PI-2620 demonstrated excellent characteristics potentially allowing for differentiation between 3/4R- and 4R-tauopathies and might serve as a supportive readout in the diagnostic workup of neurodegenerative disorders. PI-2620 completed a Phase 2 clinical trial in Alzheimer’s disease in 2021. Two test-retest studies in PSP (Phase 1) are currently ongoing. a-synuclein-PET tracer in Parkinson's and NeuroOrphan diseases Description Summary Our next-generation PET tracer has shown significant potential to reliably detect and map deposits of the pathological form of a-synuclein protein in the brain and was advanced into clinical development in 2021. Supported by the Michael J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Research, a First-in-Human study and an investigator-initiated study were begun in 2021 and evaluate the imaging tracer’s characteristics as a diagnostic tool in patients with Parkinson’s disease, multiple system atrophy (MSA) and other a-synucleinopathies. ADDRESSING ALZHEIMER’S, PARKINSON’S AND OTHER NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES BROAD AND DIVERSIFIED PIPELINE FOCUSED ON NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES Our clinical stage pipeline uniquely integrates diagnostic and therapeutic candidates as well as different treatment modalities (such as antibodies, vaccines and small molecule drugs) against the most promising validated therapeutic targets. Read more THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Alzheimer’s disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease leading to dementia and a major focus of AC Immune. In recent years, as our pipeline has grown, we have diversified to develop product candidates targeting Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan diseases. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject AllAbout Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers .cls-1 { fill: #fff; } search ADDRESSING ALZHEIMER’S, PARKINSON’S AND OTHER NEURODEGENERATIVE DISEASES AC IMMUNE’S ROBUST PIPELINE Based on our SupraAntigen® and Morphomer® technology platforms, we are advancing one of the industry’s broadest and most diverse clinical-stage pipelines focused on neurodegenerative diseases.  We design first- and best-in-class therapeutic and diagnostic candidates to tackle established and novel disease targets enabling AC Immune’s comprehensive precision medicine approach. CLINICAL STAGE PROGRAMS TARGET PRODUCT CANDIDATE INDICATION DISCOVERY PRECLINICAL PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PARTNER Tau ACI‑35.030 anti-pTau vaccine Alzheimer's disease Semorinemab anti-Tau antibody Alzheimer's disease (mild-to-moderate)1 Morphomer® Tau aggregation inhibitors Rare Tauopathies Alzheimer's disease PI‑2620 Tau-PET2 tracer Alzheimer's disease PSP3 diagnostic Abeta Crenezumab anti-Abeta antibody Alzheimer's prevention 4 ACI‑24 anti-Abeta vaccine Alzheimer's disease (Down syndrome5) Alzheimer's disease alpha-synuclein ACI‑7104 anti-a-syn vaccine Parkinson's disease, alpha-synucleinopathies ACI‑12589 a-syn-PET tracer Parkinson's disease, alpha-synucleinopathies (1) Open label extension study is ongoing; (2) Positron emission tomography; (3) Progressive supranuclear palsy; (4) Prevention trial API-ADAD in Colombia; (5) Down syndrome-related AD Biologic Small Molecule Diagnostic Download NOVEL TARGETS PIPELINE TARGET PRODUCT CANDIDATE INDICATION DISCOVERY PRECLINICAL PHASE 1 PHASE 2 alpha-synuclein Anti‑a‑syn antibody Parkinson's disease, NeuroOrphan Morphomer® a‑syn aggregation inhibitor Parkinson's disease, alpha-synucleinopathies TDP-43 Anti‑TDP‑432 antibody LATE3, NeuroOrphan TDP‑43‑PET tracer TDP-43-opathies Inflammasome Anti‑NLRP34‑ASC5 antibody NeuroOrphan Morphomer® NLRP3‑ASC NeuroOrphan Morphomer® NLRP3‑ASC Non-CNS (1) Parkinson's disease; (2) TAR DNA-binding protein 43; (3) Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy; (4) (NOD)-like receptor protein 3; (5) Apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD, also PYCARD Biologic Small Molecule Diagnostic Download CLINICAL TRIALS AC Immune’s clinically validated technology platforms generate potentially first- and best-in-class vaccines, antibodies, small molecules and diagnostics. These include several Phase 2 programs and will yield a total of seven clinical data readouts in 2022. Read more THERAPEUTIC FOCUS Alzheimer’s disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease leading to dementia and a major focus of AC Immune. In recent years, as our pipeline has grown, we have diversified to develop product candidates targeting Parkinson’s disease and other NeuroOrphan diseases. Read more AC Immune SA EPFL Innovation Park-Building B 1015 Lausanne / Switzerland Phone: +41 21 345 91 21 Fax: +41 21 345 91 20 Email: info@acimmune.com Home About Us Our Science Our Pipeline Investors Careers Stay in touch Get to know us © 2023 AC IMMUNE SA | Website by Procab studio Privacy policy Supplier Information Terms of use We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent. Cookie Settings Accept All Reject All