Skip to main content ABOUT US RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PATIENT RESOURCES MEDIA CONTACT RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Pipeline Asceneuron’s R&D pipeline is composed of innovative small molecules designed to prevent disease progression and provide symptomatic relief of neurodegenerative diseases. Asceneuron aims to address high unmet medical needs in neurodegenerative proteinopathies such as orphan tauopathies, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. Our pipeline is composed of innovative small-molecule therapeutics aiming to prevent disease progression in proteinopathies and reverse cognitive impairment in dementia.   PROTEINOPATHIES (Tau / α-Synuclein) O-GLCNACASE INHIBITORS ASN51 : AD/PD ASN90 : Other indications (AD/PD) ASN90 : Orphan tauopathy PSP* * Partenered with Ferrer COGNITIVE DYSFUNCTION IN DEMENTIA M1 PAM (PDD/LBD/FTD) AD: Alzheimer's disease LBD: Lewy Body Dementia FTD: Frontotemporal dementia PDD: Parkinson's disease dementia PSP: Progressive Supranuclear Palsy   About ASN90 ASN90 (formerly labelled as ASN120290 or ASN-561) is an in-house developed OGA inhibitor which has been outlicensed to our partner Ferrer for the orphan tau-related disease, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). ASN90 received orphan drug designations by the US FDA and the European EMA for the treatment of PSP. The molecule has completed three clinical studies in healthy volunteers including a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase I study to assess its safety and tolerability of single and multiple doses in healthy young and elderly volunteers and a human positron emission tomography (PET) CNS target engagement study. Asceneuron is exploring further potential indications for ASN90.  About ASN51 Asceneuron’s next generation OGA inhibitor ASN51 has been awarded USD 2.2 million from the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation for a first in human Phase I study. ASN51 has completed two clinical studies in healthy volunteers including a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase I study to assess its safety and tolerability of single and multiple doses in healthy young and elderly volunteers and a human positron emission tomography (PET) CNS target engagement study. A multiple ascending dose PET study is currently ongoing, to investigate the brain occupancy of O-GlcNAcase, and the pharmacodynamic response in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, after repeated doses of ASN51 to healthy subjects.   Patient resources PROGRESSIVE SUPRANUCLEAR PALSY PARKINSON'S DISEASE ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE Asceneuron SA Asceneuron is a clinical stage biotech company focused on the development of orally bioavailable therapeutics for debilitating neurodegenerative disorders with high unmet medical need, including orphan tauopathies, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. Footer menu Home About us R&D Strategy Pipeline News Contact Asceneuron SA EPFL Innovation Park Bâtiment B CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland LinkedinTwitter Geographic Coordinates Latitude: 46.517753 Longitude: 6.561869 Disclaimer | CreditsSkip to main content ABOUT US RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PATIENT RESOURCES MEDIA CONTACT NEWS & EVENTS Meet us at the ASBMB OGA Biology Conference! 14.06.2022 - Event Asceneuron will present at the ASBMB O-GlcNAc regulation of cellular physiology and pathophysiology conference on July 7–10, 2022 at the University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA. This conference will draw experts in O-GlcNAc biology from around the world to discuss how O-GlcNAc and O-GlcNAc cycling enzymes modulate protein function in basic biological processes as well as in disease states, including diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease and neurological diseases. Conference program Our Head of Translational Medicine Dr Ryan Schubert will present “Human pharmacology highlights the potential of the ASN51 as an ideal once-a-day oral drug for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases” at the session “O-GlcNAcylation and neuronal functions and disease” scheduled from 9:00 am to 12:00 am on Sunday, July 10th. Poster session Our Head of Preclinical Development Dr Bruno Permanne will present a poster “ASN51, an Orally Bioavailable Small-molecule O-GlcNAcase Inhibitor, has both immediate and Disease-Modifying Benefits in Preclinical Models of Parkinson’s Disease”.  Asceneuron is proud to support this event as a sponsor in its commitment to advancing and promoting research on O-GlcNAc biology to find novel treatments for numerous human diseases. Further information about the event can be found here. Asceneuron SA Asceneuron is a clinical stage biotech company focused on the development of orally bioavailable therapeutics for debilitating neurodegenerative disorders with high unmet medical need, including orphan tauopathies, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. Footer menu Home About us R&D Strategy Pipeline News Contact Asceneuron SA EPFL Innovation Park Bâtiment B CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland LinkedinTwitter Geographic Coordinates Latitude: 46.517753 Longitude: 6.561869 Disclaimer | CreditsSkip to main content ABOUT US RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PATIENT RESOURCES MEDIA CONTACT NEWS & EVENTS Asceneuron to Provide Update on O-GlcNAcase Pipeline 27.09.2021 - Press releases Asceneuron to Provide Update on O-GlcNAcase Pipeline at Upcoming Conferences OGA inhibitors offer multimodal mechanism of action with potential for multiple approaches to clinical development in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease   Lausanne, SWITZERLAND and San Francisco, CA, USA, 30 September 2021 - Asceneuron SA, a clinical stage company dedicated to targeting the root causes of neurodegenerative diseases such as the intracellular aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein tau, is pleased to announce that the Company will be presenting novel data on its O-GlcNAcase (OGA) inhibitor pipeline at the following upcoming conferences. 22nd International Conference on Alzheimer's Drug Discovery Date: 4-5 October 2021, New York. Virtual Conference. Session: Clinical trials and novel approaches for Dementia Presentation: OGA inhibitors as multimodal drugs for intracellular proteinopathies on Monday, 4 October, 16:45 CET/10:45 US ET. 146th Annual Meeting of the American Neurological Association Date: 17-19 October 2021, New Jersey.  Virtual Conference. Presentation: Efficacy of ASN51, an Orally Bioavailable Small-Molecule O-GlcNAcase Inhibitor, in Models of Parkinson's Disease and Epilepsy, on Monday, 18 October, 23:30 CET/ 18:30 US ET. EUROTAU Date: 25-26 October, 2021. Lille, France. Presentation: OGA inhibitors as multimodal drug candidates for tau- and alpha-synucleinopathies on Tuesday, 26 October, 14:55 CET.  Dirk Beher, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder of Asceneuron, stated: “We are delighted to have been invited to present at three leading conferences to discuss and share the latest insights on our proprietary pipeline of O-GlcNAcase inhibitors. The data generated so far are an important development in addressing the challenges seen in Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s diseases drug development and demonstrate our continuing commitment to bring urgently needed treatments to patients with tau-related neurodegenerative diseases.” O-GlcNAcase is an emerging drug target in central nervous system (CNS) drug development since deficient glycosylation patterns of intracellular proteins have been associated with diseases of aging and neuronal dysfunction. O GlcNAcase inhibitors prevent the elimination of intracellular protein glycosylation, thereby halting the decline of the steady-state levels of this post-translational modification. O-GlcNAcase inhibitors have initially been pursued exclusively for tau-related diseases. Preclinical data suggest a wider application to intracellular proteinopathies such as Alzheimer’s disease and related disorders, and diseases of disturbed neuronal network function in general, with the potential to provide both disease-modifying and symptomatic benefits at the same time as multimodal drugs.  Upload the full press release   About Asceneuron Asceneuron is a clinical stage biotech company focused on the development of orally bioavailable therapeutics for debilitating neurodegenerative disorders with high unmet medical need. The pipeline reflects our ambition to develop treatments for a wide a range of neurodegenerative diseases including orphan tauopathies, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. Asceneuron has two clinical stage small molecule O-GlcNAcase inhibitors in development for the treatment of proteinopathies including one first in class for Parkinson’s disease, one best in class in Alzheimer’s disease and related disorders. Asceneuron is a privately held company financed by a renowned syndicate of investors consisting of Sofinnova Partners, M Ventures, SR One, Johnson & Johnson Innovation – JJDC, Inc. (JJDC) and Kurma Partners. For more information, please visit www.asceneuron.com. About ASN51 Asceneuron’s best-in-class programm ASN51, a next-generation O-GlcNAcase inhibitor, was awarded USD 2.2 million from the Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation for a first in human Phase I study. The trial in process recruits healthy volunteers and Alzheimer's disease patients at sites in Europe and Australia, and began in Q2 2021. Asceneuron will be presenting interim results at the upcoming conferences on safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and human target engagement. About ASN120290 Asceneuron’s most clinically advanced program ASN120290, an O-GlcNAcase inhibitor, is being developed for the orphan tauopathic disease, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and was granted Orphan Drug Designation by the US FDA for the treatment of Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP). ASN120290 has completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase I study to assess its safety and tolerability of single and multiple doses in healthy young and elderly volunteers. Data from that study were presented at the Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC) in Chicago July 22-26, 2018. About 22nd International Conference on Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery This annual conference showcases the innovative approaches of Alzheimer’s Drug Discovery Foundation’s (ADDF) funded scientists and their newest results. In addition to featuring ADDF’s portfolio, the program also includes guest presentations focusing on the latest research in the Alzheimer’s disease field. About 146th Annual Meeting of the American Neurological Association ANA2021 is the top meeting for academic neurologists and neuroscientists to connect over ground-breaking research and best practices for success in the field. The reimagined program builds on the success of last year’s first-ever Virtual Annual Meeting and as always, will explore the latest advances in translational neuroscience, neurobiology of disease, and academic neurology. About Eurotau2021 Meeting Created in 2017 with the objective to build a European consortium on Tau proteins and Tauopathies, the Eurotau meeting is taking place for the 3rd time in Lille, France.  Worldwide scientists involved in Tau research meet to exchange new ideas and hypotheses on physiological and pathological roles of tau proteins.   Asceneuron SA Asceneuron is a clinical stage biotech company focused on the development of orally bioavailable therapeutics for debilitating neurodegenerative disorders with high unmet medical need, including orphan tauopathies, Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. Footer menu Home About us R&D Strategy Pipeline News Contact Asceneuron SA EPFL Innovation Park Bâtiment B CH-1015 Lausanne Switzerland LinkedinTwitter Geographic Coordinates Latitude: 46.517753 Longitude: 6.561869 Disclaimer | Credits