Behind the science of HIV of vaccines of asthma of cancer of medicines of lupus of adjuvants of AMR of GSK Innovation stories from GSK Articles Videos 01 / 06 Previous slide Next slide EDITORIAL ‘I had never experienced anything like it’: the pain, risks, and first symptoms of shingles every adult should know 3 min read time Filter search Type Browse article by topic Search Reset all filters EDITORIAL ‘We’re not a world of men – it's as simple as that’: how gender diversity in clinical trials improves health outcomes for women 5 min read time EDITORIAL ‘I had never experienced anything like it’: the pain, risks, and first symptoms of shingles every adult should know 3 min read time EDITORIAL Age-related decline in immunity: why does it matter and what can be done about it? 5 min read time EDITORIAL ‘The roar I hear is the next stage of the rocket firing’: MAPS technology and the new age of vaccine development 5 min read time EDITORIAL The ‘tripledemic’ will hit older people hard this winter – but there are things we can all do to reduce the impact 4 min read time EDITORIAL Harnessing tumour DNA to detect cancer recurrence earlier 3 min read time EDITORIAL Antibiotic resistance: now’s the time to prevent the next pandemic 4 min read time EDITORIAL Using new science to get ahead of myelofibrosis - a rare blood cancer 2 min read time Q&A Getting ahead of COPD exacerbations using new tech could save lives 9 min read time EDITORIAL The logic of biologic medicines: advancing care for people with immune-mediated conditions 4 min read time EDITORIAL Eosinophils could be holding the missing link between symptoms, diagnosis and treatment 5 min read time EDITORIAL Time for a change: personalising asthma treatment 3 min read time EDITORIAL Unlocking the power of the immune system to get ahead of hepatitis B 4 min read time Show more 13/33 Innovation videos 0:37 SCIENCE EXPLAINER What is RSV? 0:37 SCIENCE EXPLAINER What is RSV? 1:45 INNOVATION VIDEO Eosinophils: the missing link between symptoms, diagnosis and treatment? 0:35 SCIENCE EXPLAINER What is an adjuvant? 0:32 SCIENCE EXPLAINER How can booster vaccines help against COVID-19? Continue to Company This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Innovation Research and development approach Research and development approach We will get ahead of disease together with our R&D approach of focusing on the science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced technologies, such as functional genomics and AI/ML. R&D is the core of our innovation In 2022, we invested £5.5 billion in R&D – 9% AER more than 2021 - to enhance our pipeline of vaccines and medicines and help us get ahead of disease together. Our scientists prioritise genetically identified targets that are at least twice as likely to succeed in the clinic.  They also prioritise infectious disease targets and immune-modulators that have greater lifecycle opportunities.    How our R&D approach is getting us ahead of disease Vaccines and medicines that are currently in development 69 Major new vaccines and medicines approved since mid 2017 >20 Number of assets in phase III/registration in 2022 18 Number of phase I programmes started in 2022 16 Why do we prioritise genetically validated targets in our R&D? Scientific research shows that genetically validated targets are at least twice as likely to successfully become medicines. What therapeutic areas are we focusing on? We prioritise research into vaccines and medicines across our four core therapeutic areas of infectious diseases, HIV, immunology/respiratory, and oncology. We also remain open to opportunities outside of these core areas where the science aligns with our strategic approach. We continue to strengthen our pipeline of vaccines and medicines, applying our growing expertise and partnerships in technology and data to increase the productivity of our R&D.   Infectious diseases For 70 years we have been pioneering research to help protect people from infectious disease. HIV We are working to treat, prevent and ultimately cure HIV. Immunology/ respiratory We’re focused on unlocking the science of the immune system to understand the body’s defence system. Oncology Our expertise in oncology allows us to bring groundbreaking cancer therapies to patients in need. You might also like INNOVATION Innovation is at the heart of achieving our purpose to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together THERAPEUTIC AREAS To get ahead of disease, we prioritise research into vaccines and medicines across our four core therapy area PIPELINE Our pipeline is focused on unlocking the science of the immune system and advanced technologies to develop innovative vaccines and medicines Continue to Pipeline This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Innovation Pipeline Pipeline Q4 2022 Pipeline List ( XLSX - 25.7KB ) At GSK, our pipeline is focused on unlocking the science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced technologies to develop vaccines and specialty medicines. We invest in scientific and technical excellence to develop and launch a pipeline of new vaccines and specialty medicines across our four core therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, immunology/respiratory, and oncology. We also remain open to opportunities outside these core therapeutic areas where there are scale opportunities consistent with the science of the immune system and human genetic validation. Our pipeline Pipeline changes Key Pipeline updated 01 February 2023 Additional indication Immuno-modulator View all therapeutic areas Infectious Diseases HIV Immunology/ Respiratory Oncology Opportunity Driven Compound number / Generic name / Brand name Indication Phase Mode of action / Vaccine type GSK3844766A † RSV Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult population 60 years of age or older Registration Recombinant protein - adjuvanted vaccine GSK4182136 (VIR-7831) † sotrovimab Xevudy COVID-19 early treatment Registration anti-spike protein antibody GSK3070785 † momelotinib myelofibrosis Registration JAK1, JAK2 and ACVR1 inhibitor GSK4382371A Ɨ † COVID-19 vaccine (SK Bioscience) SKYCovione COVID-19 Registration (5) recombinant protein nanoparticle-adjuvanted vaccine GSK1278863 daprodustat Anaemia associated with chronic renal disease Registration (ROW) Prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor GSK2857916 † belantamab mafodotin Blenrep 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with Pomalyst and dexamethasone Phase III ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen GSK2857916 † belantamab mafodotin Blenrep 2L+ multiple myeloma combination with Velcade and dexamethasone Phase III ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen GSK2140944 † gepotidacin uncomplicated UTI (acute cystitis) Phase III triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II topoisomerase inhibitor GSK2140944 † gepotidacin urogenital gonorrhoea (GC) Phase III triazaacenaphthylene bacterial type II topoisomerase inhibitor GSK3228836 † bepirovirsen Hepatitis B Phase III HBV antisense GSK2330672 linerixibat Cholestatic pruritus in PBC (primary biliary cholangitis) Phase III Ileal bile acid transporter (IBAT) inhibitor SB240563 mepolizumab Nucala COPD Phase III anti-Interleukin 5 (IL5) GSK4069889 (TSR-022) † cobolimab Non-small cell lung cancer combination with Jemperli (dostarlimab) and docetaxel Phase III Anti-T-cell immunoglobulin and mucin domain-3 (TIM-3) antibody GSK3536829A Meningococcal group B Vaccine Bexsero Meningococcal B disease prophylaxis 2 months of age and older (US) Phase III Recombinant protein vaccine GSK3536819A Men ABCWY (1st Gen) Meningococcal A, B, C, W,Y disease prophylaxis in adolescents Phase III Recombinant protein - conjugated vaccine GSK3985771 † niraparib Zejula 1L maintenance ovarian cancer combination with Jemperli (dostarlimab) Phase III Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor GSK3985771 † niraparib Zejula 1L maintenance non-small cell lung cancer combination with pembrolizumab Phase III Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor GSK3985771 † niraparib Zejula Pre-metastatic, select biomarker population breast cancer Phase III Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1/2 inhibitor GSK4057190 (TSR-042) † dostarlimab Jemperli 1L Endometrial cancer Phase III Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor (PD-1) antibody GSK4057190 (TSR-042) † dostarlimab Jemperli 1L Endometrial cancer combination with niraparib Phase III Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor (PD-1) antibody GSK4527223 (AL-001) † latozinemab Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to Heterozygous Mutations in the Progranulin Gene Phase III anti-Sortilin monoclonal antibody GSK4182136 (VIR-7831) † sotrovimab Xevudy COVID-19 hospitalized Phase III anti-spike protein antibody GSK3511294 † depemokimab Asthma Phase III anit-Interleukin 5 (IL5) (long acting) GSK3511294 † depemokimab chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) Phase III anti-Interleukin 5 (IL5) (long acting) GSK3511294 † depemokimab eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) Phase III anti-Interleukin 5 (IL5) (long acting) GSK3511294 † depemokimab hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) Phase III anti-Interleukin 5 (IL5) (long acting) GSK3844766A † RSV Respiratory syncytial virus prophylaxis in older adult population 50-59 years of age Phase III Recombinant protein - adjuvanted vaccine GSK3778712 † tebipenem pivoxil Complicated UTI (7) Phase III Antibacterial carbapenem VH3810109 †^ HIV Phase II HIV broadly neutralizing antibody GSK2857916 † belantamab mafodotin Blenrep Multiple myeloma in combination with anti-cancer treatments (platform study) Phase II ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen GSK3036656 † Tuberculosis Phase II Leucyl t-RNA synthetase inhibitor GSK3228836 † bepirovirsen Hepatitis B sequential therapy with Pegylated Interferon Phase II HBV antisense GSK3640254 ^ HIV Phase II HIV maturation inhibitor GSK3437949A † Malaria next generation (fractional dose) Malaria prophylaxis (Plasmodium falciparum) Phase II Recombinant protein - adjuvanted vaccine GSK4069327A † Shigella Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis Phase II Bioconjugated (tetravalent) vaccine BVL-GSK098 † Tuberculosis Phase II Ethionamide booster GSK4057190 (TSR-042) † dostarlimab Jemperli Non-small cell lung cancer (1) Phase II Anti-Programmed Cell Death protein 1 receptor (PD-1) antibody VIR-2482 † (4) Influenza Phase II neutralizing monoclonal antibody GSK4428859 (EOS884448) † cancer Phase II anti-TIGIT GSK4527223 (AL-001) † latozinemab Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) Phase II anti-Sortilin monoclonal antibody GSK4532990 † non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) (6) Phase II HSD17B13 silencer GSK4178116A Varicella New Strain Active immunization for the prevention of varicella in individuals from 12 months of age and older Phase II Live attenuated vaccine GSK4388067A † CHBV ASO combo Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B virus infection in individuals >18 years without decompensated cirrhosis Phase II Targeted Immunotherapy (viral vector; adjuvanted recombinant proteins) & Direct Acting Antiviral (GSK's bepirovirsen) GSK4527223 (AL001) † latozinemab Frontotemporal Dementia (FTD) due to Mutations in the C9orf72 Gene Phase II anti-Sortilin monoclonal antibody GV118819 † sanfetrinem cilexetil Tuberculosis Phase II serine beta lactamase inhibitor GSK5101956A † Pneumococcal 24-Valent - Adults Prevention of pneumonia and invasive pneumococcal disease caused by the Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes included in the vaccine, in adults aged 18 years and above. Phase II Vaccine using Multiple Antigen Presenting System (MAPS) Platform GSK5101955A † Pneumococcal 24-Valent - Paed Prevention of invasive pneumococcal disease, pneumonia, and acute otitis media caused by the Streptococcus pneumoniae 24 serotypes included in the vaccine in children aged 6 weeks - 17 years. Phase II Vaccine using Multiple Antigen Presenting System (MAPS) Platform GSK4406371A Measles, mumps, rubella & varicella new strain vaccine Active immunization for the prevention of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella in children 12 months through 12 years of age Phase II Live attenuated vaccine GSK1550188 belimumab Benlysta Systemic sclerosis associated interstitial lung disease (8) Phase II B lymphocyte stimulator monoclonal antibody GSK3528869A † Therapeutic HBV Treatment of chronic Hepatitis B infections – aims at functional cure by controlling and resolving the clinical sequelae of the infection and reducing the need for further treatment Phase II * Prime-boost with viral vector co- or sequentially administrated with adjuvanted recombinant proteins GSK4023393A Men ABCWY (2nd Gen) Meningococcal A, B, C, W,Y disease prophylaxis in adolescents and children 6wks and above Phase II * Recombinant protein - conjugated vaccine GSK4106647A † HPV9-AS04 Active immunization of girls and women, boys and men (9-45 years), for the prevention of cancer, genital warts and precancerous or dysplastic lesions (girls, boys AIN only) caused by Humanpapillomavirus (HPV) Phase II * Recombinant protein -adjuvanted vaccine GSK4182137 (VIR-7832) † COVID-19 Phase I * anti-spike protein antibody GSK3993129A  CMV Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection prophylaxis (females 16-49 YoA) Phase I * Recombinant subunit- adjuvanted vaccine GSK4348413A Gonorrhea Active immunization to prevent gonorrhea in individuals age 16 years and older, regardless of previous gonorrhea infection history Phase I * Generalized Modules for Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine GSK4074386 (TSR-033) † Cancer Phase I Anti-lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) antibody GSK3745417 advanced solid tumors Phase I STING cytosolic DNA pathway agonist GSK3858279 † osteoarthritis pain Phase I anti-CCL17 GSK2857916 † belantamab mafodotin Blenrep 1L multiple myeloma combination with Velcade, Revlimid and dexamethasone Phase I ADC targeting B-cell maturation antigen GSK1265744 ^ cabotegravir HIV (400 mg/ml formulation) Phase I HIV integrase inhibitor GSK3186899 †(2) Visceral leishmaniasis Phase I CRK-12 inhibitor GSK2904545A † C. difficile Active immunization for the prevention of the primary C. Diff diseases and for prevention of recurrences Phase I Recombinant protein -adjuvanted vaccine GSK6097608 † Cancer Phase I anti-CD96 VH3739937 ^ HIV Phase I HIV maturation inhibitor GSK3882347 † uncomplicated UTI Phase I FimH antagonist GSK3494245 † Visceral leishmaniasis Phase I Proteasome inhibitor GSK3923868 viral COPD exacerbations Phase I PI4K beta inhibitor GSK2556286 † Tuberculosis Phase I Mtb cholesterol dependent inhibitor GSK4527226 (AL-101) † neurodegenerative disease Phase I anti-Sortilin monoclonal antibody GSK4429016A † K. pneumoniae Klebsiella pneumoniae prophylaxis Phase I Recombinant protein - bioconjugated - adjuvanted vaccine GSK1070806 Atopic dermatitis Phase I anti-IL18 VH4004280 ^ HIV Phase I HIV capsid protein inhibitor GSK3888130 † multiple sclerosis (MS) Phase I anti-IL7 GSK4381562 † Cancer Phase I anti-PVRIG GSK3943104A † Therapeutic HSV Active Immunization to suppress recurrence of Genital Herpes in adults aged 18 years and older. Phase I Recombinant protein - adjuvanted GSK4382276A † mRNA Seasonal Flu Active immunization for the prevention of disease caused by influenza viruses in adults 18 years and above Phase I mRNA vaccine GSK4396687A † mRNA COVID Active immunization to prevent COVID-19 disease caused by SARS-CoV-2 virus in individuals 12 years and above Phase I mRNA vacccine GSK3965193 Hepatitis B Phase I PAPD5/PAPD7 inhibitor VH4011499 ^ HIV Phase I HIV capsid protein inhibitor GSK3745417 myeloid malignancies Phase I STING cytosolic DNA pathway agonist GSK3536852A † Shigella Shigella diarrhea prophylaxis Phase I Generalized Modules for Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine GSK4077164A † iNTS (Typhimurium + Enteritidis) invasive non-typhoidal salmonella Phase I bivalent Generalized Modules for Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine GSK4077164A † iNTS (S. typhimurium + S. enteritidis + S. Typhi) invasive non-typhoidal salmonella and typhoid fever Phase I Membrane Antigens (GMMA) vaccine and typhoid conjugate vaccine (TCV) GSK3772701 † Malaria Phase I P falciparum whole cell inhibitor (pyrrolidine amides) GSK3536867A † Salmonella Typhi/paratyphi Salmonella typhoid and paratyphoid (A) enteric fever Phase I bivalent Typhoid and Paratyphoid A conjugate GSK5251738 † Hepatitis B Phase I TLR8 agonist VH4524184 †^ HIV Phase I HIV integrase inhibitor GSK4172239 † sickle cell disease (6) Phase I DNMT1 inhibitor XMT-2056 †(3) (wholly owned by Mersana Therapeutics) Cancer Phase I STING agonist ADC       Pipeline progress The content of our development pipeline will change over time as new projects progress from research to development and from development to the market. Phases of clinical development Our products in development progress through three stages: phase I, phase II and phase III/registrational. Each of these phases allows us to assess the safety and efficacy of our investigational products to eventually provide data to support applications for regulatory approval. For competitive reasons, new projects in pre-clinical development are not disclosed and some project types may not be identified.   Expand all  Phase I Phase II Phase III/registrational Monitoring post-launch Brand names are trademarks either owned by and/or licensed to GSK or associated companies.   For COVID-19 vaccines, GSK is contributing pandemic adjuvant to COVID-19 vaccines collaborations. This information was updated on 01 February 2023.   Continue to Therapeutic areas This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Innovation Therapeutic areas Oncology Oncology Our expertise in oncology allows us to bring groundbreaking cancer therapies to the patients who need it most.  Strategic approach Blood cancers, gynaecologic cancers and other solid tumours Immuno-oncology Synthetic lethality Immuno-oncology science image Our strategic approach to oncology research focuses on areas where we have the capabilities to make a difference: Immuno-oncology to harness the body’s immune system to fight cancer  Synthetic lethality to combine two genetic mechanisms to destroy cancerous cells  Tumour cell targeting to identify cancer cell-specific traits  We have accelerated research areas including synthetic lethality and next generation immuno-oncology agents, drawing on our own expertise in human genetics and the science of the immune system, and that of our partners.  02:19 INNOVATING TOGETHER Meet Laura: surviving cancer and helping others Meet Laura View on YouTube 10 June 2022 Innovating together Our disease areas of focus Blood cancers, gynaecologic cancers and other solid tumours We are currently focusing our research on developing and delivering novel medicines for patients with multiple myeloma. Multiple myeloma is the third most common blood cancer worldwide – more than 175,000 people are diagnosed every year. Currently, there are limited treatment options for patients with multiple myeloma after they progress through several stages of disease. Thus, our goal is to offer more tools for patients across all lines of therapy. Gynaecologic cancers are some of the most common cancers affecting women. In 2020, nearly 1.4 million women around the world were diagnosed with a gynaecologic cancer. We are focused on developing new medicines across a range of different modalities both as monotherapy and in combination for a variety of cancers, including ovarian and endometrial. We are investigating new treatment options for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer by combining our own therapies with standard care treatment, in the hope of discovering additional therapeutic options for patients with this challenging diagnosis.  We are also exploring the use of one of our therapies as an early-stage treatment for breast cancer, using personalised technology that may enable for earlier detection of tumour cells. This could lead to further personalised treatment, potentially slowing or stopping the cancer’s progress, especially for women at higher risk of recurrence. BEHIND THE SCIENCE Tania Small, MD – our VP and Global Medical Oncology Franchise Head – discusses our approach to R&D, including the pursuit of innovative treatments for gynaelogic cancers. Read the article about gynaecologic cancers Exploring science and other collaborations Across our R&D in oncology, we invest in new technologies and partnerships to push the boundaries of cancer research. One of the most important areas is immuno-oncology. Additionally, functional genomics helps us identify new treatment targets in synthetic lethality, an approach to cancer treatment that targets only genetic mutations in cancer cells, not healthy cells.   Continuing advances in immuno-oncology  Immuno-oncology is a fast-developing area. However, the search for new targets is important as currently less than 30% of patients respond to certain immuno-oncology treatments.  Through our work, we are aiming to help the immune system recognise and kill cancer cells more effectively. We’re studying how combinations of different therapies can enhance anti-tumour activity utilising the CD226 axis that is expressed on the surface of T-cells and natural killer cells. Our collaborations with iTeos and Surface Oncology have allowed us to grow and develop our pipeline to potentially help more patients through immuno-oncology combination therapy. BEHIND THE SCIENCE Learn more about how the next generation of immuno-oncology could help us get ahead of cancer Read article about immuno-oncology Exploring the potential of functional genomics in synthetic lethality  Our work on functional genomics has identified more than 10 target research candidates in the field of synthetic lethality. Collaborating with IDEAYA Biosciences, an oncology-focused precision medicine company, we are also exploring tumours with MTAP deletion, a common feature of solid tumours. Together, we are also developing two new assets that we expect to move in the clinic over the next few years. BEHIND THE SCIENCE Learn more about synthetic lethality treatments. Read the article about Synthetic Lethality Continue to Immunology This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Innovation Therapeutic areas Immunology/respiratory Immunology/respiratory We’re focused on unlocking the science of the immune system to understand how the body’s defence system reacts to disease. Eosinophil-driven diseases Lupus Rheumatoid arthritis Immuno-neurology Early-phase portfolio Lupus science image Our expertise in immunology extends to respiratory disease, where we have been leading research into eosinophil-driven diseases such as asthma for over 25 years. We also develop and manufacture a range of innovative respiratory medicines that help millions of people living with respiratory conditions around the world.  Our areas of focus Eosinophil-driven diseases  For over 50 years GSK has led the field in respiratory research, developing medicines that have transformed treatment and helped people across the world to breathe more easily. Today, we’re combining this deep experience with our work in immunology and leading research into eosinophil-driven diseases. Eosinophil-driven diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hypereosinophilic syndrome, and chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps are inflammatory conditions associated with over-production of eosinophils, a type of white blood cell, which can result in inflammation and permanent damage to vital organs and tissues. We have developed a treatment designed to reduce the number of eosinophils in the blood, which can help to reduce inflammation, and we’re progressing research to understand how this may help across a range of diseases. Lupus Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) - a chronic autoimmune disease, and lupus nephritis (LN) - the kidney inflammation caused by lupus, share an underlying cause - a protein called B lymphocyte stimulator (BLyS). We are growing the scientific understanding of the role of BLyS and the B cell pathway in the progression of lupus and lupus subtypes, and we’re continuing to develop and expand access to an innovative treatment that can help to control SLE and LN through this novel approach. BEHIND THE SCIENCE What if remission were the target of lupus care? Read article 30 May 2022 Rheumatoid arthritis As many as 1% of people worldwide experience rheumatoid arthritis (RA) - a chronic inflammatory disease that can cause pain, joint swelling and inflammation which can lead to acute and chronic disability. With only around 30% of RA patients achieving remission despite the amount of targeted therapies currently available, and around 40% of patients reporting daily pain, the need to find more effective treatments is clear. We are focusing our research on developing a novel way to treat RA, so that patients may ultimately be able to better manage their pain and inflammation and achieve an improved quality of life.  Immuno-neurology Focusing on human genetics and the science of the immune system has helped us to identify potential treatments for patients with neurodegenerative diseases. In July 2021, we announced a partnership with Alector to develop two medicines for neurodegenerative diseases, including frontotemporal dementia (FTD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease. Both medicines are designed to raise levels of progranulin, which regulates immune activity in the brain. This partnership combines Alector’s immuno-neurology expertise with our R&D focus on the science of the immune system and human genetics and drug development capabilities. Early-phase portfolio In 2021 we began trials for new medicines that target diseases such as atopic dermatitis and multiple sclerosis. These trials were informed by our access to genetic databases which identified indications with the highest probability of success. We also completed a worldwide licence agreement with Arrowhead Pharmaceuticals for a genetically validated, investigational therapy for patients with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Our phase I pipeline also consists of other molecules targeting the immune system for celiac disease, osteoarthritis pain and neuro-degenerative disease.     Continue to Opportunity driven This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLProducts Our products Learn more about our product portfolio and how we’re prioritising vaccines and specialty medicines to get ahead of disease together. Our product areas Products A-Z Scroll to explore Our product areas Vaccines Vaccines Our unrivalled vaccine portfolio targets infectious diseases at every stage of life. From adjuvants that improve vaccine effectiveness, through to mRNA technology, we use advanced technologies and collaborate with our partners to develop new, more effective vaccines that help people around the world to get ahead of disease. Specialty medicines Specialty medicines As our experts seek innovative new ways to treat the human body, specialty medicines are at the forefront of our high-value pipeline of new products. We are global leaders in developing medicines for respiratory disease and HIV, and we are building our presence in other key therapy areas such as immunology and oncology. General medicines General medicines General medicines are usually prescribed in primary care or community settings by general healthcare practitioners. For us, this includes our medicines for inhaled respiratory, dermatology and other diseases. These vital medications are the engine room of GSK, supporting hundreds of millions of people to enjoy a better everyday quality of life. View our product areas Our vaccines and medicines Getting ahead means preventing disease as well as treating it. Our R&D focus is to deliver new vaccines and medicines using the science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced technologies. 12 vaccines manufacturing sites - enabling a supply capability to produce and deliver 500 million vaccine doses in 2022 1.5m doses of vaccines delivered every day 20+ vaccines, helping to protect lives from diseases including meningitis, shingles, flu, whooping cough, measles, hepatitis and human papillomavirus (HPV) 40% of the world’s children receive a GSK vaccine each year 2.3bn packs of medicines and doses of vaccines delivered in 2022 Explore our innovation stories Innovation is at the very core of GSK. Discover how we’re uniting science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together. Getting ahead of infectious diseases with advanced technology Digital twin: using advanced technology to accelerate vaccine development How vaccine science can help tackle antimicrobial resistance Computational Biology: setting the stage for future wins and new medicines Read our magazine You might also like GLOBAL HEALTH Our Global health ambition is to boost the health of 1.3 billion people in low- and lower middle- income countries over the next 10 years PURPOSE, STRATEGY AND CULTURE At GSK we unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT APPROACH We focus our R&D on science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced technologies to develop innovative vaccines and medicines Continue to Responsibility This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Products Product areas Our product areas Learn about more about our portfolio of vaccines, specialty and general medicines which together will help us impact the lives of 2.5 billion people by the end of 2030. Vaccines Specialty medicines General medicines Our supply chain Vaccines Shingles science image Vaccines help protect people from infectious diseases at every stage of life. Our portfolio of marketed vaccines is the broadest in the industry. It includes more than 20 vaccines that help protect people around the world from a range of diseases and infections throughout their lives. For many decades our vaccines have protected millions from diseases like whooping cough, polio and measles. Today we deliver approximately 1.5 million vaccine doses daily, and 40% of the world’s children receive a GSK vaccine each year. We are proud of the impact our vaccines continue to have on the health of hundreds of millions of people around the world. Vaccines in our portfolio 20+ Vaccine doses that we deliver per day 1.5m Children that receive a GSK vaccine each year 40% We are targeting several new launches by 2026, including our vaccine candidate for respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) in older adults. We will support these goals by drawing on our strong manufacturing capability and scale, as well as our global reach and commercial execution. Specialty medicines COVID-19 Specialty medicines are prescribed by specialist healthcare practitioners. For GSK this includes our cancer medicines with life-changing potential for patients including ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer and multiple myeloma. We’ve accelerated this research and currently have three marketed cancer therapies and a further nine assets in development. We’re also developing medicines for immune-mediated conditions. We are global leaders in developing medicines for respiratory disease and HIV. Having pioneered the first HIV treatments in the 1980s, our goal now is to limit the impact of HIV on people’s lives by treating, preventing and ultimately curing it. General medicines DNA General medicines are usually prescribed in primary care or community settings by general healthcare practitioners. For us, this includes our inhaled medicines for asthma and COPD, antibiotics and medicines for skin diseases. Every day, these medicines improve health and make life better for millions of people all over the world. For more than 50 years, we’ve helped millions of people with respiratory conditions to breathe more easily, including our first inhalers in 1969, and we remain an industry leader in respiratory science. Our supply chain Our operations span the value chain from identifying, researching, developing and testing groundbreaking discoveries, to regulatory approval, manufacturing and commercialisation. Getting our vaccines and medicines to patients who need them is critical to how we improve health around the world. Our medicines supply chain is a global network that enabled us to produce and deliver 2.3 billion packs of medicines and doses of vaccines in 2022. Vaccines Our global network of 12 vaccines manufacturing sites gives us a strategic supply capability that enabled us to produce and deliver over 500 million doses in 2022. The highest quality standards are ensured during each step of the vaccine production process, including vaccine components, facilities and equipment, people training, qualification, certification and storage. Each of our vaccines is produced to the same quality standard, regardless of where in the world the vaccine will be used.  Vaccine doses delivered in 2022 >500m Vaccines manufacturing sites 12 Medicines Our medicines supply chain is a global network that enabled us to produce and deliver 1.8 billion packs of medicines in 2022. We adhere to the highest quality standards during every step of the medicine production process, to comply with both our own requirements and local market regulations. These standards cover active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacture, facilities and equipment, people training, qualifications, certification and storage. We've built an agile network, with the capacity and capability to bring the next generation of medicines to patients all over the globe. Packs of medicines delivered in 2022 1.8bn You might also like RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT APPROACH We focus our R&D on science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced technologies to develop innovative vaccines and medicines R&D LOCATIONS Over 15,000 outstanding people work across R&D helping to get ahead of disease around the world BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE Explore innovations from inside and outside our labs. Go #BehindTheScience to see for yourself Continue to Products A-Z This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Products Products A-Z Products A-Z Below you can find the full A-Z list of our products available worldwide. If you are a healthcare professional you can access product information on your local GSKPro website. Or view our worldwide directory to see other markets where we operate. Filter by product area All product areas Vaccines Specialty medicines General medicines A - D E - H I - L M - P Q - T U - Z Trademark (A-D) Generic Product area Ambirix hepatitis A (inactivated) and hepatitis B (rDNA) (HAB) vaccine (adsorbed) Vaccines Amoxil amoxiicillin General medicines Anoro Ellipta umeclidinium and vilanterol General medicines Apretude cabotegravir Specialty medicines Arnuity Ellipta Fluticasone General medicines Augmentin amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium General medicines Avamys / Veramyst fluticasone furoate General medicines Avodart/Avolve / Duodart dutasteride General medicines Bactroban mupirocin General medicines Beconase beclomethasone General medicines Becotide/Becloforte beclomethasone dipropionate General medicines Benlysta belimumab Specialty medicines Betnovate betamethasone valerate General medicines Bexsero meningitis B Vaccines Blenrep belantamab mafodotin Specialty medicines Boostrix tetanus toxoid, reduced diphtheria toxoid and acellular pertussis vaccine, adsorbed Vaccines Boostrix IPV Diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (acellular, component) and poliomyelitis (inactivated) vaccine (adsorbed, reduced antigen(s) content) Vaccines Cabenuva cabotegravir/rilpivirine Specialty medicines Cabenuva/Vocabria + Rekambys Cabotegravir, rilpivirine Specialty medicines Cervarix human Papillomavirus vaccine (types 16, 18) - recombinant, adjuvanted, adsorbed Vaccines Combivir lamivudine/ zidovudine Specialty medicines Cutivate fluticasone propionate General medicines Dermovate clobetasol propionate General medicines Dovato dolutegravir/lamivudine Specialty medicines Duac clindamycin phosphate and benzoyl peroxide General medicines FOR HEALTHCARE PROFESSIONALS Visit GSKPro if you're a healthcare professional seeking more information on our vaccines, medicines and educational resources.  Go to GSKPro You might also like DATA TRANSPARENCY We have a long-standing commitment to clinical data transparency. Insight into our initiatives to increase access to our clinical research POSITION ON PHARMACOVIGILANCE Our position on Pharmacovigilance sets out GSK’s commitment to high safety, quality, and ethical standards through application of consistent pharmacovigilance principles SUPPORTED STUDIES Research results publicly available, recognising the key role supporting external studies play in helping to meet patients’ medical needs. This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Responsibility Global health and health security Using our science for global health Using our science for global health Our two global health R&D hubs are Tres Cantos and the GSK Vaccines Institute for Global Health (GVGH). They research and develop transformative products to prevent and treat infectious diseases which disproportionately impact people in low- and lower middle- income countries, with a focus on diseases with AMR potential. We specialise in using our scientific expertise to translate laboratory concepts into high quality vaccines and medicines by developing them through to clinical trials which will determine their efficacy and safety. Once we have demonstrated the ‘proof of concept’, we partner with organisations better placed to maximise patient reach and impact. Our global health R&D prioritises areas of high unmet medical need. Our R&D strategy centres on best- and first-in-class innovation, so we can bring differentiated benefit to our patients. 02:52 OUTSTANDING PEOPLE Meet Tim: valuing neurodiversity in Global Health Meet Tim View on YouTube 10 June 2022 The GSK Vaccines Institutes for Global Health (GVGH) At GVGH, our scientists are researching enteric diseases such as shigellosis, invasive nontyphoidal salmonellosis and typhoid and paratyphoid fever, and Group A streptococcus. GVGH scientists led the development of a conjugate vaccine for Typhoid, and in January 2020 the TYPHIBEV (Vi-CRM197) asset was licensed to Biological E for the prevention of typhoid fever in 6-month to 64-year-olds; in December 2020 this vaccine obtained WHO pre-qualification. We have also developed an innovative vaccine technology platform, GMMA, which enables a simple and scalable manufacturing process, ideal for vaccines designed for lower income countries. Funding for GVGH research projects comes from GSK and a range of external private and public funding bodies which share the risk of developing new vaccines for these priority neglected diseases. Tres Cantos, pharmaceutical R&D In Tres Cantos, our scientists are working on potential new medicines for tuberculosis (TB), malaria, Neglected Tropical Diseases including Chagas disease, and causes of childhood diarrhoea and sepsis. Tuberculosis TB is known for its fever and persistent cough that can lead to coughing up blood. Left untreated, it can be fatal. We’re using our science to develop shorter, simpler and safer treatments and to improve the prevention of TB. Current options can have serious negative impacts on patients’ lives or leave some populations lacking protection. Our pipeline includes several potential first-in-class medicines. The need for multi-drug regimens means collaboration is essential to get ahead of TB. We’re part of several multi-sectoral collaborations to accelerate the discovery and development of new treatments. We have been working with IAVI to develop a much needed potential vaccine which is the first major step in TB prevention for almost 100 years. We are partnering with the Bill & Melinda Gates Medical Research Institute for its further development. Malaria Malaria is one of the world’s oldest diseases and continues to have a devastating impact in many parts of the world. Children under five and pregnant women are particularly susceptible to severe malaria, which can be fatal. Malaria also impacts lives beyond ill health – it is a significant driver of poverty in many places Malaria is a complex disease caused by Plasmodium parasites. There are five different types of Plasmodium parasites known to infect humans – P. falciparum is most prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa, while P. vivax is most common in South and South-East Asia, and Latin America. With our partners, we’ve brought two products for the prevention and treatment of malaria to market – the world’s first vaccine against malaria, or any other parasite, and a single-dose, radical cure for P.vivax malaria. We know that no one tool will be enough to get ahead of malaria, particularly due to growing resistance, so we continue to invest in the next generation of transformative tools. View video on YouTube Supporting open innovation to advance global health R&D Our commitment to advancing global health R&D extends beyond our own work. As founders of the Tres Cantos Open Lab Foundation, we support scientists from around the world to join us at our Tres Cantos R&D hub to pursue their own projects as part of an integrated team. They can access our expertise, processes, and industrial-scale infrastructure to further their research into infectious diseases which predominantly affect low- and lower middle- income countries. A significant pipeline of candidate medicines has been delivered through this model – including a novel TB drug candidate with treatment shortening potential. We have also established the GVGH Innovation Academy, focusing on future technologies for global health vaccinesin partnership with academic institutions.  Our partnerships RTS,S Working in collaboration with PATH and others we have developed our RTS,S vaccine, the first vaccine to help protect children against the deadliest form of malaria, P. falciparum. In 2019, the WHO-coordinated a pilot implementation programme for the vaccine led by local ministries of health, and in partnership with PATH and GSK. It launched in selected regions of Malawi, Ghana and Kenya. In April 2022, WHO announced 1 million children had received the vaccine. Along with PATH and Bharat Biotech, we have agreed a product transfer to help ensure long-term supply of the RTS,S vaccine.   Press release: GSK, PATH, and Bharat Biotech sign product transfer agreement to help ensure long-term supply of RTS,S/AS01E malaria vaccine Tafenoquine With Medicines for Malaria Venture we have also developed the first single-dose medicine, tafenoquine (Krintafel/Kozensis), to treat P. vivax malaria. We work with partners to provide tafenoquine at an affordable price in endemic countries, to maximise access to those who need it most, as part of global efforts to eradicate malaria. In March 2022, a paediatric formulation was approved which is dispersed in water making it easier for children to take than the existing 7- or 14-day course of pills. You might also like HEALTH SECURITY At GSK, we’re uniting science, technology and talent to get ahead of health security threats BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE Explore innovations from inside and outside our labs. Go #BehindTheScience to see for yourself THERAPEUTIC AREAS To get ahead of disease, we prioritise research into vaccines and medicines across our four core therapy area Continue to Improving access to healthcare This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Responsibility Product governance Product governance Ensuring the quality, safety and reliable supply of our products is critical to our purpose of uniting science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together. On this page we detail our different systems and processes that help to support this. We have quality systems in place across GSK to ensure we meet the high standards we set ourselves as a company, and those that are expected of us externally. These standards also protect our licence to operate at a high-quality level across our entire supply chain. Our constant review of these standards allows us to keep pace with the evolving nature of external regulations, and new scientific understandings of our existing products and processes.  Expand all  GSK Quality Management System    Audits Regulatory inspections Product recalls  Third-party suppliers Product and patient safety training Continue to Ethical standards This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Careers Experienced professionals Research and development Research and development We’re looking for the world’s best talent to help us discover and develop new products. An outstanding R&D team of 15K Potential vaccines and medicines 69 We’re looking for the world’s best talent to help us continue to discover and develop new medicines and vaccines to improve the lives of billions of people. Our R&D team is at the centre of GSK with a shared ambition to solve the biggest healthcare challenges and get ahead of disease, together. Are you ready to take on the challenge?  Join GSK in a variety of R&D roles Chemical Manufacturing and Controls (CMC), Development and Manufacturing Professionals View Chemical Manufacturing and Controls (CMC), Development and Manufacturing Professionals Genomic sciences View Genomic sciences Search jobs in Genomic sciences Find your next role Search Business Operations Engineering Manufacturing and supply Marketing and sales Technology Continue to Biopharm Drug Discovery, Development and Manufacturing Professionals This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Careers Experienced professionals Research and development Chemical Manufacturing and Controls (... Chemical Manufacturing and Controls (CMC), Medicine Development and Supply (MDS) We’re looking for ambitious professionals to join GSK in a variety of roles in the UK and the US.  Explore open roles in Chemical Manufacturing and Controls (CMC) in Medicine Development and Supply (MDS) #CMCDevelopmentGSK      We have global businesses that discover, develop, and manufacture innovative medicines and vaccines. We are committed to widening access to our products, so more people can benefit, no matter where they live in the world or what they can afford to pay.  At GSK, we believe that execution is key to delivering the pipeline and achieving our ambitions in four therapeutic areas: infectious diseases, HIV, immunology/respiratory, and oncology. As a global enterprise with activities in the UK and the US, we have a thriving team of scientists across development, manufacturing and clinical supply chain for our large, small molecule, cell and gene therapy medicines. We are building a state-of-the-art, modality agnostic CMC organisation that develops the tools and processes needed to make medicines a reality, moving swiftly from idea to impact while bringing together a diversity of people and disciplines. Together with our therapy area partners, GSK’s CMC organisation is developing, and manufacturing novel medicines to benefit patients around the globe. Our culture supporting your future  We can offer you a collaborative learning environment and the opportunity to develop your career and gain experience across drug discovery. If you share our priorities of innovation, performance and trust and are motivated to contribute towards bringing lifesaving drugs to patients, then we'd love to hear from you. We offer you the opportunity to: Play an important role in delivering our mission Be an essential part of a diverse, global team Work in an environment where you can realise your full potential Achieve your career ambitions Be proud of the difference you can make for patients world-wide Be well rewarded in terms of professional development, pay and benefits Find a career with purpose  Expand all  CMC - Discovery CMC - Development  CMC - Strategic External Development (SED) CMC - Clinical Supply Chain Explore open roles in Chemical Manufacturing and Controls (CMC) in Medicine Development and Supply (MDS) #CMCDevelopmentGSK Find your next role Search You might also like BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE Explore innovations from inside and outside our labs. Go #BehindTheScience to see for yourself OUTSTANDING PEOPLE Learn how our people are using their talents and passions to focus on Working together, Thriving together and Innovating together. TECHNOLOGIES At GSK we combine human genetics, genomics and advanced technologies to develop more effective vaccines and medicines Continue to Genomic Sciences This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Careers Experienced professionals Research and development Genomic sciences Genomic sciences We’re looking for ambitious Human Genetics, Computational Biologists, and Functional Genomics professionals to join GSK in a range of therapeutic areas. For a list of current opportunities, visit our careers portal. Our ambition is to positively impact the health of 2.5 billion people by the end of 2030. We have global businesses that research, develop, and manufacture innovative pharmaceutical medicines and vaccines. We are committed to widening access to our products, so more people can benefit, no matter where they live in the world or what they can afford to pay. Find a career with purpose in genetics or genomics Our people are central to our success. To deliver against our strategy and tackle global health challenges effectively, we need a talented, motivated, and resilient workforce. To achieve this, we aim to create a working environment where employees feel valued, empowered, and inspired. Our approach to R&D focuses on science related to the immune system, and will leverage human genetics, functional genomics, and advanced analytics to improve the probability of successfully developing new medicines. Used on a genome-wide scale, these technologies have the power to uncover insights previously hidden. We are poised to transform drug discovery by taking a deeper look into the genetic clues behind disease, aided by large-scale genetic resources, the latest technology, and advanced data science skills. Our exclusive partnership with 23andMe gives us access to one of the largest sets of genotypic and phenotypic information. In addition, our collaborations with Genomics England, UK Biobank, FinnGen, Open Targets, the Altius Institute, the BROAD Institute and the Laboratory for Genomic Research, along with our world-leading internal capabilities, position GSK to be world-leaders in using human genetics and functional genomics as an integral part to drug discovery and development. Explore our partnerships: 23andMe Genomics England UK Biobank FinnGen Open Targets Altius Institute BROAD Institute Laboratory for Genomic Research Our culture supporting your future If you share our priorities of innovation, performance, and trust and are motivated to bring lifesaving drugs to patients, then we'd love to hear from you. We can offer you a collaborative and learning environment, where you will be supported with development opportunities and a brilliant work/life balance. We offer you the opportunity to: Play an important role in delivering our mission Be an essential part of a diverse, global team Work in an environment where you realise your full potential Achieve your career ambitions Be proud of the difference you can make for patients world-wide Be well rewarded in terms of professional development, pay, and benefits  Join us GSK Genetics in US, UK or Germany We have several newly created positions in R&D across the areas of Human Genetics, Computational Biology, and Functional Genomics where we will be recruiting for scientists. Our teams are based at our R&D sites in Collegeville, Pennsylvania, USA; Boston, Massachusetts, USA; San Francisco, California, USA; Heidelberg, Germany; and in Stevenage, England. If you are an expert in one of the fields below, we have a role for you. Our vacancies regularly include opportunities for:  Computational Biologists Geneticists Genomic Data Scientists Gene Editing and Cell & Tissue Sciences Experts Statistical Geneticists Genomics Experts Didn't find what you're looking for? Search Find out more about Genomic sciences at GSK ASHG partners with GSK to foster workforce diversity and inclusion in Genetics and Genomics 23andMe and GSK head to Clinical Trials with Cancer Drug GlaxoSmithKline taps UC’s CRISPR expertise to speed drug discovery GSK R&D Chief Hal Barron lays out new R&D strategy focused on Genetics and Immune-System If we map the genetics of a disease, could we change its course? Unravelling the mysteries of the human genome with functional genomics GSK and the University of Oxford launch new Oxford-GSK Institute to harness advanced technology and unravel mechanisms of disease You might also like BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE Explore innovations from inside and outside our labs. Go #BehindTheScience to see for yourself OUTSTANDING PEOPLE Learn how our people are using their talents and passions to focus on Working together, Thriving together and Innovating together. TECHNOLOGIES At GSK we combine human genetics, genomics and advanced technologies to develop more effective vaccines and medicines This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Careers Early talent Future leaders graduate programme Research and development Research and development Learn how you can excel in R&D at GSK on our Future Leaders Graduate Programme. Biostatistics Clinical Operations R&D Data Science Regulatory Affairs Vaccines Biostatistics The work of Biostatistics underpins GSK R&D's ability to make high quality decisions across the product development lifecycle, both Pharma and Vaccines, leading to lower late-phase attrition rates, greater probability of first cycle approval and reliable manufacturing processes for producing medicinal products at acceptable cost. Inspired to help us get ahead together? Apply for the Biostatistics Future Leaders programme at GSK today!  Expand all  What can you expect? What are the requirements?  Clinical Operations Our mission in GCO, is to unite science, talent and technology to accelerate the provision of high quality clinical data to deliver the medicines and vaccines pipeline. We’re looking for Future Leaders in R&D Clinical Operations. If you are a graduate with the passion to take accountability for planning and leading the delivery of a study to ensure it is delivered on time, to a high quality, within budget and all in line with company standards and scientific requirements, then this is a role for you!  Expand all  What can you expect? What are the requirements? R&D Data Science in biopharmaceutical medicine design and development Use data to uncover answers and deliver insights that can help us get ahead of disease.  We’re looking for Future Leaders in R&D Data Science Are you ready to use data to develop results that amplify our science? If so, then bring that enthusiasm here. Together, we can generate new insights that increase the probability of creating transformational medicines for patients using advanced analytics, data science and machine learning. Develop your career  If you’re a graduate with the desire to create big solutions that revolutionise treatment for patients, this is a role for you.  Expand all  What can you expect? What are the requirements? Regulatory Affairs Help us maintain standards to improve lives  Help us make sure our medicines are safe, effective, and always high quality. That’s how we can deliver what matters most, better and faster. We’re looking for Future Leaders in Regulatory Affairs Are you an analytical graduate who can help us ensure our medicines meet rigorous legal standards? This will be your challenge within our dedicated Regulatory Affairs department. It’s here that we advise on legal and scientific requirements; collect, collate, and evaluate scientific data in order to confirm the quality, safety and efficacy of our drugs – and keep track of changing global health authority requirements. We have to meet stringent standards as part of the registration for clinical trials and marketing approvals across the world. You can be instrumental in this crucial process. Working with different areas of the function, other departments and colleagues from around the world, you’ll get an unparalleled insight into a critical team and the chance to provide expert guidance.  Develop your leadership potential and career If you’re a graduate with the talent and ambition to lead others, we’ll help you develop the expertise to become one of our Future Leaders. Over two years, our Future Leaders graduate programme will challenge and support you to grow professionally and personally. You’ll have stretching rotations supporting areas such as Therapeutic, Chemistry, Manufacturing and Control (CMC), Labelling or the UK and Ireland business. As you experience these varied fields of expertise, you’ll learn exactly what it takes to get a drug approved. As well as honing your technical skills, you’ll gain valuable leadership training through a combination of mentoring, classroom sessions and on-the-job training. Learn more about a career in Regulatory Affairs.  One thing that excites me about regulatory affairs is that every day is different! Working with various functional teams and bringing together technical expertise to deliver compliant regulatory licenses for GSK's diverse portfolio has taught me so much. Wendy Jones Regulatory Affairs FLP, UK Expand all  What can you expect?    What are the requirements?  Vaccines Developing vaccines that save lives  Help us research and develop the vaccines that can improve the lives of billions of people across the world.  We’re looking for Future Leaders in Research and Development (Vaccines) If you’re an innovative graduate who’s keen to develop vaccines that meet real public health needs, join us and let’s get ahead of disease together. At GSK, we have one of the broadest portfolios of vaccines including meningitis, rotavirus, hepatitis and influenza vaccines, and we cover vaccines for children, adolescents, adults, travellers and the elderly. Through a tailored programme of training, mentoring and work experience, you’ll learn all about our vaccines business while honing your scientific and technical skills. There’ll also be the chance to pursue a career focused on specific vaccine projects. This popular and highly competitive career path attracts scientists from many disciplines. Develop your career On your two-year Future Leaders graduate programme you’ll experience three stretching rotations in different R&D teams. First, you’ll get to work on core activities within the R&D Vaccines function. Through this one-year hands-on role, and your later placements, you’ll see science in action in our labs, discover new technology platforms, understand how a vaccines development project works, participate in clinical research activities, work with external collaborators, or learn about the risk and compliance side of vaccine discovery and development. You will benefit from learning and development tailored to your goals, as well as the business needs, setting you up for success in your chosen area. After you complete our Future Leaders programme, you’ll have acquired new skills and a solid foundation opening doors to a variety of R&D careers within the pharmaceutical industry.  Everything that you do here at GSK, in any team, is striving is to help people. Cristina R&D (Vaccines), US Expand all  What can you expect? What are the requirements? When I finished my doctoral studies in bio-engineering, my next step wasn’t clear to me. I felt I had achieved my goals within academia and I knew I wanted to transition into a corporate environment. But how? Where would my skills fit? What opportunities were out there for people like me? Andres R&D (Vaccines) Search all currently available #ResearchDevelopmentFLP and #DataScienceFLP roles here #ResearchDevelopmentFLP #DataScienceFLP Search other currently available FLP roles here #FLP #BusinessOpsFLP #EngineeringFLP #ManufacturingSupplyChainFLP #CommercialFLP #TechFLP You might also like BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE Explore innovations from inside and outside our labs. Go #BehindTheScience to see for yourself OUTSTANDING PEOPLE Learn how our people are using their talents and passions to focus on Working together, Thriving together and Innovating together. FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS Here are the answers to some frequently asked questions about how we hire people at GSK Continue to Technology This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share ‘I had never experienced anything like it’: the pain, risks, and first symptoms of shingles every adult should know 24 February 2023 3 min read time Related tags Specialty Infectious diseases Listen to this article TV presenter Eamonn Holmes describes his experience with the excruciating disease caused by the chickenpox virus. Plus, the misconceptions and lack of awareness about shingles symptoms that can lead to debilitating complications. Chickenpox was almost a childhood rite of passage before a vaccine was introduced for children in 2017. In fact, it was so common that it was often more surprising to hear of someone who had not had it. Less well known is that the Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV), the virus that causes chickenpox, doesn’t leave the body. Instead, it remains dormant in the nervous system where it can later reactivate as shingles. The first signs of shingles can be a tingling or painful feeling in an area of skin, a headache, or a light fever. A few days later, a rash may appear. Usually, a shingles rash starts on the chest or abdomen, but it can appear anywhere on the body, including the face. TV presenter Eamonn Holmes OBE is a former shingles patient. “I remember feeling my face wasn't right and a bit itchy,” Holmes says of the first time he experienced shingles symptoms. “I went to bed, and I woke up with blisters and that was very frightening because I had never experienced anything like it. I had no idea what it was.” Besides the immediate pain and discomfort that usually accompanies a shingles rash, more serious conditions such as persistent pain (post-herpetic neuralgia) can last for months or even years, potentially impacting a patient’s quality of life. Holmes describes the persistent pain that followed as like “the nerve had a root, and you could feel it penetrating. “It was deeper. It was a stabbing sort of pain.” Eamonn Holmes shared a picture of his shingles rash via his instagram account. He also speaks of the impact shingles had on his day-to-day enjoyment of life. “Everything becomes an irritation, whether you're sitting watching a TV programme, washing your hair, dressing, just lots of things,” he continues. “I mean, you're not going to go out to a restaurant, you're not going to want to be seen in public.” Although rare, other challenging complications, like pneumonia, brain inflammation, and heart problems can occur. Another less common complication is Ramsay Hunt Syndrome, which affects the nerves on the face, usually on one side, and can even cause temporary facial paralysis and hearing loss. What causes shingles, and who is it at risk? After a person contracts chickenpox, the VZV virus lies dormant in the nervous system and may reactivate in adulthood. Studies have shown that, prior to the introduction of chickenpox vaccines, over 90% of people experience the effects of chickenpox in the first years of their lives, and 1 in 3 people will develop shingles in their lifetime. Shingles particularly affects older adults and is most common for people aged 50 or over. People with cardiovascular conditions, respiratory conditions (such as asthma, or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and/or metabolic disorders such as diabetes) are at increased risk of shingles, as are individuals whose immune system may not be working properly as a result of a known disease, or who are taking medications that suppress the immune system (for example, undergoing cancer treatment, a bone marrow or organ transplant, or suffering from immune deficiencies and/or autoimmune diseases). Read related BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE Age-related decline in immunity: why does it matter and what can be done about it? Leading a healthy lifestyle might strengthen your immune system, but the age-related decline of our body’s ability to protect us is part of the natural ageing process, making us more and more susceptible to shingles as we get older. “Shingles can occur at any time in adulthood, so it is important to understand the risk factors and how shingles can significantly impact the quality of someone’s life,” says Sabine Luik, chief medical officer and SVP of global medical regulatory and quality at GSK. “The more people are aware of the links between chickenpox and shingles, the sooner people can take action and discuss their concerns with their healthcare provider.” Raising awareness about shingles, its risks, symptoms, and potential complications is key to ensuring adults have the knowledge they need to take preventative action. “It is vital to work across sectors and disciplines to ensure that people over 50 years of age have reliable information on the risks of shingles, and help adults understand the important moments that can be missed due to this painful disease,” says Jane M Barratt PhD, the secretary general of the International Federation on Ageing. This article was written to coincide with Shingles Awareness Week, led by GSK in collaboration with the International Federation on Ageing (IFA). The objective of Shingles Awareness Week is to raise awareness and address the lack of knowledge about the risks of shingles and severity of its complications, which can rob people from enjoying important moments in their lives. GETTING AHEAD OF COPD EXACERBATIONS USING NEW TECH COULD SAVE LIVES We speak to GSK respiratory disease leads David Lipson and Chris Compton about identifying future COPD patients and tailoring treatments THE ‘TRIPLEDEMIC’ WILL HIT OLDER PEOPLE HARD THIS WINTER – BUT THERE ARE THINGS WE CAN ALL DO TO REDUCE THE IMPACT The flu, COVID-19, and RSV are all in circulation, raising the risk of severe infectious disease in older adults. HARNESSING TUMOUR DNA TO DETECT CANCER RECURRENCE EARLIER Circulating tumour DNA technology (ctDNA) could help doctors identify when a patient's cancer has returned faster than traditional methods. This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share Getting ahead of infectious diseases with advanced technology The predictive power of genetics, genomics, and AI holds the key to transforming medical discovery for the better, shaping how diseases are both prevented and treated. 23 September 2021 2 min read time Related tags Early Science and Technology Listen to this article Significant investments in artificial intelligence and machine learning, and the use of functional genomics – plus working closely with our partners – enable us to uncover new opportunities in science and medicine. Even before the pandemic, infectious diseases had a major impact on morbidity and mortality around the globe. However, the lessons learned from the pandemic have put front and centre the need for approaching infectious diseases with both vaccines and medicines.  This dual approach is something we have long been working towards at GSK across a wide array of diseases including HIV, RSV (Respiratory Syncytial Virus) and flu and it will be a key strategy for years to come. Our HIV focus isn’t just about people living with HIV, it’s about communities that are vulnerable to or impacted by HIV. That’s why we are looking at medicines that already have transformative benefits for treatment and evaluating their potential for preventing HIV. We think this could be a game-changer in our efforts to end the HIV epidemic. Dr. Kim Smith Head of R&D, ViiV Healthcare Within our reach there are vaccines that can work as both prevention and treatment – all thanks to recent advances in science, the progress we’ve seen in vaccine technology, and the fact that our understanding of the immune system and pathogens is better than ever before. Roger Connor President, Vaccines, GSK When our scientists collaborate with biotechs, academia, and companies around the world, we are able to deliver intellectual synergy that happens when scientists from different disciplines work together toward a common goal. With all the innovation that is emerging, I think the next decade is going to bring the most important discoveries ever made in science and medicine. Dr. Hal Barron Non-Executive Director, with additional responsibilities to support R&D, GSK This pandemic brought our companies together, but our collaboration extends across a number of programs and a range of respiratory disease. So, our work today will help prepare us and the world for the next pandemic. Dr. George Scangos Chief Executive Officer, Vir Biotechnology Ultimately, it’s the combination of science, talent and technology that will catapult GSK and our partners to be even more ambitious in how we deliver transformational medicines and vaccines for patients.   External article Read more in The New York Times for an in-depth look at our efforts in the fight against infectious diseases. You might also like HOW WE'RE GETTING AHEAD OF AN INCURABLE BLOOD CANCER How improvements in identifying novel drug discovery targets has greatly improved survival rates for the disease FOLLOWING THE SCIENCE OF OXYGEN TO DISCOVER SOLUTIONS FOR ANAEMIA Targeting certain treatable traits an individual may exhibit could have a significant impact on their quality of life DIGITAL TWIN: USING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY TO ACCELERATE VACCINE DEVELOPMENT Embracing digitalisation is central to GSK’s new commitments to vaccine innovation Continue to 1.4 million reasons to get ahead of gynaecologic cancers This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share Tech for T-cells single cell RNA seq measures shifts in immune cells to pinpoint causes of disease 26 May 2022 5 min read time Related tags Early Science and Technology Listen to this article Gosia Trykna, who is the Experimental Science Director at Open Targets and a group leader at the Wellcome Sanger Institute, and David Tough, a Senior Scientific Director in GSK’s Immunology Research Unit, discuss how the long-standing partnership with Open Targets builds on GSK’s leadership in bringing together human genetics and advanced technologies, and what this groundbreaking new research means for how we treat immune diseases more effectively. At GSK, we’re always looking to gain insight into what causes disease so that we can develop more effective medicines to treat them. We’ve long known there’s a correlation between variations in DNA and many diseases of the immune system, for example inflammatory bowel disease, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. Specifically, we know a type of immune cell called T-cells are where changes in gene expression that ultimately lead to disease often occur. But until now, it’s been difficult to get a detailed look at what exactly influences T-cell behavior because there are many sub-types of T-cells and their activity is highly dynamic and complex. As part of Open Targets, a public-private partnership focused on using genetics and large-scale genomics to identify promising areas for drug development, GSK and scientists from the Wellcome Sanger Institute pioneered the first use of functional genomics technology that allows researchers to observe shifts in gene expression at the resolution of single T-cells – and over time. We’re now able to better understand the intersection between human genetics and the immune system, getting us closer to pinning down the root causes of disease. Researchers identified links between 127 genes and immune diseases, providing newfound insights into the sequence and timing of gene activity during the activation of T cells, a key process in regulating the body’s immune response, and will help to identify new targets for drug discovery. External publication View the results of this work that are being published in a new article in Nature Genetics, a world-leading multidisciplinary science journal. Researchers identified links between 127 genes and immune diseases, providing newfound insights into the sequence and timing of gene activity during the activation of T cells, a key process in regulating the body’s immune response, and will help to identify new targets for drug discovery. Q: What was the goal of this work? Gosia Trykna: At a basic level, we know from lots of previous research that there are associations between variations in DNA and immune diseases. In this work, we wanted to better understand how these genetic variants regulate the immune system. Why do they make the immune system over-reactive and result in escalated inflammation in patients? In previous work, we’ve shown that these disease-associated variants are linked to the T-cell activation process but it was unknown exactly how, or through which genes and processes. So, that was where we focused this time around. Q: What's so important about T-cells? David Tough: T-cells are key immune cells that are critical to protecting our body from infection and can help fight cancer. However, abnormalities in the functioning of T-cells are often the cause of immune mediated diseases. When T-cells recognize foreign substances and become activated, they undergo massive changes in their gene expression patterns. In this work, we measured alterations in gene expression throughout T-cell activation at the level of individual cells. We then assessed whether genetic variants that are known to increase the risk of developing immune diseases affect the expression of genes in T-cells at different points of activation. Q: How do you go about doing something like that? Gosia: We recruited over 100 participants to collect cell samples, making sure to get a representation of age and gender. We cultured cells in the lab and used a method to mimic cell activation, similar to the process that a T cell would encounter in the body. We then measured gene expression over multiple time points of activation. By doing this at single cell resolution and in a large number of cells – more than 600,000 – we were able to capture how individual cells change in their gene expression patterns at different states of activation. The study of this sample size gave us the statistical power to associate the natural genetic variation with changes in gene expression in the T-cells under different conditions, something that can’t be done with just a few individuals. David: Then we overlaid that information with known genetic variants associated with immune diseases. In this case, we looked at 13 different immune diseases and the genetic variants that are associated with those diseases. By matching those to the variants that we found in this study that were affecting gene expression in the T-cells, we were able to see areas of overlap. From those areas of overlap, we can start to hypothesize that the genes affected by these variants may be functionally linked with predisposition to a certain disease. Q: What was new or unique about this work? David: The power that this work brought out is the ability to make observations at the single-cell level. In the past, when we would measure gene expression in bulk populations of T-cells (usually hundreds of thousands to millions of cells), what you end up with is an average for the expression of genes across all the cells. But T-cells aren’t all the same. So, while the expression of a given gene could on average be no different when comparing two bulk cell populations, it might vary greatly between individual cells. So, you really lose a lot of information when measuring average gene expression in mixed cell populations. And indeed, we do see such differences! Single cell technology allows us to let the data lead and make much more precise hypotheses – rather than making assumptions. Gosia: We were also able to get a more dynamic look at how cells work, understanding how cells transition from a steady resting state all the way through different activation time points. This is a major improvement over past methods, which took more static snapshots of cells at specific time points. In this work, we were able to capture what happens as individual T-cells transition between time points. Studying single cells in this way is a much more organic method for capturing cell behavior and changes in gene expression over time. It’s great to have data points about a single point in time, but cells are dynamic, not static, and we can now better fill in the gaps between the time points we’re measuring. For example, we can show that cells smoothly transition between the different states of activation! We’re adding in granularity and information that doesn’t exist in any publicly available data sets yet. Q: So, why does this all matter? Gosia: Ultimately, what we did is make an important link between the known variants predisposed to immune diseases with changes in gene expression in T-cells. This helps us understand which genes are affected by the immune disease variants and if the gene expression is up or down regulated, which tells us which direction we need to adjust to change the likelihood disease progression. This tells us about the disease biology, about what might be causing the disease, and what factors put someone at risk -- and potentially could even identify different ways to inhibit or modulate the gene expression to treat the disease. Importantly, we understand if we need to increase the activity of a gene or decrease the activity of a gene to counterbalance the effect. All these are important clues for developing medicines. David: We can also apply computational analysis to group together cells that have the most similar gene expression patterns, to understand commonalities and patterns between the associations and variations that drive various diseases. This can help confirm some of our understanding of diseases that might have a common sort of pathology. It can also reveal new understandings of diseases we may not have previously known were related – which is aligned with GSK’s disease agnostic approach. Q: What does it mean for GSK moving forward? David: We’ve already been implementing the learnings from this work at GSK, for example in our search for new targets. But more broadly, the learnings can be used in the future beyond the 13 diseases that were a part of this study to understand what’s underlying other diseases – for example, those in which T-cells aren’t necessarily known to be involved, but may play a role. Our work is a resource that could be used more widely than what we applied in the paper, which was an example to show the power of the technique to identify these novel gene associations You might also like HOW THE NEXT GENERATION OF IMMUNO-ONCOLOGY COULD HELP US GET AHEAD OF CANCER We may have the potential to change our approach to cancer as we know it FOLLOWING THE SCIENCE OF OXYGEN TO DISCOVER SOLUTIONS FOR ANAEMIA Targeting certain treatable traits an individual may exhibit could have a significant impact on their quality of life DIGITAL TWIN: USING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY TO ACCELERATE VACCINE DEVELOPMENT Embracing digitalisation is central to GSK’s new commitments to vaccine innovation Continue to How adjuvants boost our immune response This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share Fresh insights could finally help us tackle RSV 11 February 2022 3 min read time Related tags Vaccines Listen to this article RSV has evaded scientists for over 60 years. Now, innovations in structural biology and immunology may bring us closer to finding new ways to help protect people. Scientists have been searching for ways to get ahead of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) since 1955, when a new virus was discovered in chimpanzees suffering from respiratory symptoms. Over six decades, RSV has become a significant burden on a global scale.[1] As COVID-19 restrictions ease, some countries are now reporting a worrying resurgence of RSV infections.[2] [3] Fortunately, thanks to recent advances in science, technology and structural biology, we could finally be on the cusp of finding new solutions for this pervasive disease. At GSK, we have decades of scientific leadership in respiratory disease prevention and treatment. Combined with our expertise in vaccine platform technologies, we are well placed to drive a unique research and development approach to help us get ahead of RSV. Who is most at risk from RSV? The risk is greatest in very young infants who have never been exposed to the RSV virus before. Their airways are very narrow, and their immune systems are still developing.[1] Unlike some viruses, people infected with RSV don’t build up complete immunity, so it’s possible to become reinfected throughout life.[1] Although subsequent infections are typically less severe, the risk increases again in later life as immune systems decline naturally with age. People who are immunocompromised due to having other chronic health conditions are also at increased risk.[1] For most people, RSV causes cold-like symptoms. But for these at-risk groups, as well as those with comorbidities, it is a leading cause of serious respiratory infections. These include bronchiolitis (inflammation and congestion of the small airways or bronchioles of the lung) and pneumonia (an inflammatory condition of the lung small air sacs or alveoli).[4] This is a global issue. Each year, an estimated 1.4 million children under 6 months[5] and over 300,000 adults[6]are hospitalised by RSV. That’s a similar hospitalisation burden to influenza. The real figures are likely to be even higher, as diagnostic tools as limited.[7] [8] Why is treatment so challenging? Despite this significant burden and over half a century of research, to date there is still no vaccine available for RSV and treatment options are very limited.[4] Several factors make tackling RSV challenging. These include the fact that infection occurs at a very young age in infants, the multiple mechanisms that RSV uses to evade innate immunity, the lack of durable protective immunity induced by natural infection, and the decline of the immune system as we age. Bishoy Rizkalla Global Vaccines Medical Portfolio Lead, GSK Compared to other viruses, RSV is particularly smart at evading our immune system. Because it lives primarily ‘outside’ the body on the surface of our breathing passages, it stays protected from many of our typical immune responses. It can also hamper our immune system’s in-built antiviral response. By ‘flipping’ its proteins, it makes them harder for our antibodies to neutralise – and prevents infected cells from signalling for help.[1][9] How science can help Thanks to recent advances in structural biology and immunology, we now have fresh insights into the proteins that help us develop immunity against RSV. We also better understand how to tailor our approach to meet the needs of groups of people who are particularly at-risk. “We now know that a specific protein – known as ‘surface fusion glycoprotein F’ – is involved in the initial phases of infection,” explains Bishoy. “This makes it an interesting target for research into how to drive immunity against RSV, particularly before it fuses to other cells.[10] We also know that the immune systems of babies are very different to those of adults. They’re likely to need customised solutions. We need access to a broad range of technologies: one-size-fits-all isn’t good enough. Bishoy Rizkalla Global Vaccines Medical Portfolio Lead, GSK Collaboration is crucial to put these insights into action. GSK’s scientists are contributing their expertise to various scientific consortia to help advance our shared understanding of RSV. These include ‘PROMISE’ (Preparing for RSV Immunisation and Surveillance in Europe) and ‘RESCEU’ (Respiratory Syncytial Virus Consortium in Europe) which bring together translational scientists, clinicians, public health agencies, the pharmaceutical industry, patient groups and clinical societies. Together, we can find the solutions needed to get ahead of RSV – and most importantly, bring them to patients as quickly as possible. References [1] Vaccine development for respiratory syncytial virus. Graham. Curr Opin Virol. 2017 Apr; 23: 107–112. Accessed: 2/11/21: Vaccine development for respiratory syncytial virus (nih.gov) [2] Resurgence of Respiratory Syncytial Virus Infections during COVID-19 Pandemic, Tokyo, Japan. Ujiie et al. Emerging Infectious Diseases. 2021; 27:11. Accessed 20/10/21: https://wwwnc.cdc.gov/eid/article/27/11/21-1565_article [3] Delayed Seasonal RSV Surge Observed During the COVID-19 Pandemic. Agha & Avner. Pediatrics September 2021, 148 (3). Accessed 20/10/21: https://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/148/3/e2021052089 [4] RSV: Symptoms and care. Centers for disease control and prevention. Accessed 20/10/21: https://www.cdc.gov/rsv/about/symptoms.html [5] Global, regional, and national disease burden estimates of acute lower respiratory infections due to respiratory syncytial virus in young children in 2015: a systematic review and modelling study. Shi et al. The Lancet. 2017; 390:946–58. Accessed 2/11/21: https://www.thelancet.com/pdfs/journals/lancet/PIIS0140-6736(17)30938-8.pdf (PDF - 1.56MB) [6] Global Disease Burden Estimates of Respiratory Syncytial Virus–Associated Acute Respiratory Infection in Older Adults in 2015: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Shi T. et al, Journal of Infectious Diseases, 2020, October 2; 222 (supplement 7): S577-S583. Accessed 2/11/21: https://academic.oup.com/jid/article/222/Supplement_7/S577/5382266 [7] Respiratory syncytial virus infection in elderly and high-risk adults. Falsey et al. N Engl J Med. 2005 Apr 28;352(17):1749-59. Accessed 2/11/21: https://www.nejm.org/doi/pdf/10.1056/NEJMoa043951?articleTools=true [8] Relative Impact of Influenza and Respiratory Syncytial Virus in Young Children. Bourgeois et al. 2009 Dec; 124(6): e1072–e1080. Accessed 2/11/21: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3374864/pdf/nihms378994.pdf (PDF - 1.83MB) [9] Respiratory Syncytial Virus Sequesters NF-κB Subunit p65 to Cytoplasmic Inclusion Bodies To Inhibit Innate Immune Signalling. Jobe et al. Journal of Virology. 94, No. 22. Accessed 2/11/21: https://journals.asm.org/doi/pdf/10.1128/JVI.01380-20 [10] The respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) prefusion F-protein functional antibody repertoire in adult healthy donors. Andreano et al. EMBO Mol Med (2021)13:e14035. Accessed 2/11/21: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8185550/pdf/EMMM-13-e14035.pdf (PDF - 2.37MB) You might also like UNLOCKING THE POWER OF THE IMMUNE SYSTEM TO GET AHEAD OF HEPATITIS B GSK’s innovation team have developed a longer-lasting, more effective treatment for this global health problem TARGETING TREATABLE TRAITS IN ASTHMA AND OTHER RESPIRATORY CONDITIONS Targeting certain treatable traits an individual may exhibit could have a significant impact on their quality of life HOW ADJUVANTS BOOST OUR IMMUNE RESPONSE With its name derived from the Latin for 'help', an adjuvant can boost our immune response Continue to Combining genetics and tech to double success rates for patients This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share The ‘tripledemic’ will hit older people hard this winter – but there are things we can all do to reduce the impact 04 January 2023 4 min read time Related tags Vaccines Respiratory Immunology Infectious diseases COVID-19 Listen to this article The combination of three prominent respiratory viruses this winter – influenza virus, SARS-CoV-2 (which causes COVID-19), and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) – is raising the risk for older and at-risk adults. But what is it about age that makes some people more vulnerable to infection, and what can we do to reduce their impact? William Schaffner, MD, is medical director for the National Foundation for Infectious Diseases (NFID), a US organisation that educates and engages the public communities and healthcare professionals about infectious diseases across the lifespan. “People are using the word ‘tripledemic’ to refer to three prominent respiratory viruses that began their circulation, unseasonably, very early this year,” Schaffner says. “All of these… are active simultaneously, not to mention that there are other winter respiratory viruses that have not received quite as much publicity.” Other causes of the common cold, including rhinovirus, adenovirus and human metapneumovirus also pose a threat this season, though it is the “big three” that continue to make headlines – and with good reason. Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, it’s estimated that 6.6 million people have died worldwide, with nearly 650 million confirmed infections. Prior to the pandemic, the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that seasonal influenza may result in 290,000-650,000 deaths and 3-5 million cases worldwide each year, while RSV is estimated to account for 29,000 deaths, and 3.5 million cases worldwide each year. But why do we see greater numbers of cases of these viral diseases when the weather gets colder? “The easiest explanation, and it’s only a partial explanation, is that winter drives people indoors, closer together, for longer periods of time,” Dr. Schaffner continues. “And there are several winter holidays that further promote travel, family gatherings, and people once again being very close to each other. These are the exact circumstances that would promote transmission and illness.” Respiratory viruses are transmitted from person-to-person when people are close to each other for prolonged periods of time. Droplets may spread from an infected person to someone close by (for example, by sneezing), but droplets or aerosols from the mouth and nose can also contaminate items or can linger in the air which then spreads the infection to the next person who touches or inhales them. “Children are often the great distributors of these viruses in our populations,” Schaffner adds. “They’re together very closely, share these viruses and then they bring them home to their family, particularly older family members.” Influenza, RSV and COVID-19 all impact the respiratory system – the nose, the throat, and bronchial tubes (small tubes which go down to the lungs). The symptoms – such as runny noses, sneezing, coughing and decreased appetite – are therefore almost identical. In severe cases, these viruses affect the lungs, causing lower respiratory tract illnesses such as pneumonia, or exacerbating underlying conditions, which can lead to hospitalisation and even death. “Unfortunately, older adults, those generally 65 years and older, are at distinctively increased risk of the complications and are more susceptible to severe disease due to all three of these viruses,” Schaffner says. One of the reasons older people are more at risk of severe illness from contracting respiratory viruses is immunosenescence - how our immune system weakens with age. 0:47 View video on YouTube As people age, they are also more likely to acquire underlying chronic illnesses – such as heart disease, lung disease, diabetes, high blood pressure – that predispose them to more severe infections. In the US, the hospitalisation rate due to all three respiratory viruses is highest among older adults and those with chronic medical conditions. 58,000 children under 5 years are hospitalised from RSV each year, while 100-500 die from the virus. In addition, around 177,000 adults over the age of 65 are hospitalised from RSV each year, and 14,000 die from the virus. For influenza, the figures are fairly similar for adults over 65, with around 140,000 to 170,000 hospitalisations. For COVID-19, around 184,296 adults over 65 are hospitalised compared to 6,138 of children under 5.   “Viruses don’t impact all of us in the same way,” Piyali Mukherjee, Vice President, Head of Global Medical Affairs Vaccines at GSK, says. “With the majority of infections being mild, there is a misconception that they are like a common cold. But for older adults or those with comorbidities who contract a severe case of flu, RSV or COVID-19, they can be surprised if they aren’t able to shake it off easily, and it can be particularly frightening if they require hospital admission and care.” So how can people protect themselves – and their loved ones – from severe illness? “Fortunately, there’s a little sunshine in this dark picture, and that sunshine is of two types,” Schaffner explains. “The first is vaccines. Vaccines clearly assist in the prevention, particularly in the most serious aspects of both influenza and COVID-19. Vaccines are critical [to public health].” Global guidance for the vaccination of children has led to reductions in the spread of infectious diseases. For example, vaccinations to protect children against measles resulted in a 73% drop in deaths from the disease between 2000 and 2018 worldwide. Meanwhile, adult vaccines are becoming more common. A recent report from Vaccines Europe (Pipeline Review 2022) highlighted that 80% of 100 upcoming vaccine candidates from their members specifically target the adult population. “Vaccines have been available for adults for some time,” Dr. Schaffner says. “Although most people are generally aware that infants and young children should receive a series of vaccines, we need to increase awareness about vaccines for adults. By getting vaccinated you help protect yourself and may also extend some of that protection to your family, your neighbours, and your communities.” Dr. Phil Dormitzer, Global Head of Vaccines R&D at GSK, says that, although vaccines are not guaranteed to prevent infection, “they play a vital role in protecting the health of global populations from seasonal respiratory virus illnesses and, importantly, the ability of health care systems to function during the winter months.” "Healthcare providers are the best resource for disease prevention information and can advise individuals on the benefits and risks of vaccines and what may be recommended for them,” he says. Dr. Schaffner’s second recommendation for helping to protect against respiratory viruses is to practice health habits on an individual level. “We can be more attentive to hand hygiene, we can try to avoid people who are coughing and sneezing, and we can stay home when we are sick. If you are in a high-risk group, you may want to wear a mask if you are going to an indoor group function. You might also want to practice social distancing if you know that there’s an outbreak in your community” he concludes. “If we do become ill, we can contact our healthcare provider, particularly if we’re in one of these high-risk groups. [But] if you have any kind of questions, always it’s recommended to speak to your healthcare provider. Have that conversation.” NFID has information about RSV, flu, and other infectious diseases available on their website, www.nfid.org You might also like TARGETING TREATABLE TRAITS IN ASTHMA AND OTHER RESPIRATORY CONDITIONS Targeting certain treatable traits an individual may exhibit could have a significant impact on their quality of life FRESH INSIGHTS COULD FINALLY HELP US TACKLE RSV The 60 year search for solutions for RSV ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE: NOW’S THE TIME TO PREVENT THE NEXT PANDEMIC Antibiotics are a cornerstone of modern healthcare This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share AI and ML power better predictions for patient impact 03 November 2021 4 min read time Related tags Early Science and Technology Listen to this article Biology has been digitised over the last decade thanks to the genetic revolution, and we have access to more data than ever. Thanks to breakthroughs in genomics, artificial intelligence and through our innovative partnerships, GSK is decoding this data with unprecedented speed, scale, and precision. In a single quarter in 2020, we generated more data than we had in our company’s previous 300-year history. Access to this ever-growing body of information is only the start of how we learn to create tangible solutions for patients. Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI-ML) can help parse through a near-infinite library of possible avenues for exploration. It’s helping us build sophisticated models that continue to learn and generate even more data so we can improve new medicines and vaccines for patients. Spotlight on King’s College London and MDCI Take oncology, where less than 30% of patients respond to certain immuno-oncology therapies. Patient data and tumour imaging – when combined with AI-ML – can help better predict which medicines could have clinical benefit in certain individuals. To translate this work into something tangible for patients, we have launched the Molecular Disease Characterization Initiative (MDCI), a non-therapeutic trial that analyses patient tumour tissue and blood samples to screen for multiple potential clinical trials instead of screening a patient for a single trial at a time. Our partnership with Kings College London builds on the insights from the MDCI and aims to use AI systems to build tools that will support clinical decision-making to personalise care for patients with cancer. The clues to get ahead of disease are hidden in many places – from pathology to a patient’s molecular signature. We believe the GSK-King’s College London Translational Oncology Research Hub will contribute insights and tools to illuminate the best personalised treatment approach, and over time, change the way we treat and manage disease. Anne-Marie Martin SVP, Global Head of Oncology Experimental Medicine, GSK Together, we've formed the Translational Oncology Research Hub with King’s College London to provide insight into how patients respond to cancer treatment, using novel machine learning to analyse high-risk patients, integrating genetic and molecular traits, and ultimately make better predictions for better outcomes. This is just one way we’re looking to expand the scale, scope, and power of human ingenuity and pair it with advanced technology to tackle the most complex drug discoveries so the world can get ahead of disease. Kim Branson, Global Head of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at GSK, sums up the approach to incorporate technology as a means for discovering solutions to diseases like cancer. Advanced technologies allow us to unlock the potential of complex genetic data with unprecedented speed, precision, and scale. We’re joining our science, talent and tech to develop a more personalized approach for cancer patients through novel models in the lab that will help inform clinical decision making for the future treatment of cancer patients. Kim Branson Global Head of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, GSK We are only at the beginning of this journey, but we believe the use of AI will be increasingly important in healthcare and, more specifically, in drug discovery. Our goal is to double our developmental success rate and make a real difference in more patients’ lives – and AI-ML is crucial in making this goal a reality. More than 70% of the programs and research targets in our early pipeline have been genetically validated, and we aim to increase our potential avenues of exploration by 20% using AI-ML from public genetic databases.   Go deeper on our approach to advanced technologies:   Expand all  Better Data > Better Predictions > Better Medicines + Vaccines Better Data Better Predictions  AI-ML Driving Our Predictions You might also like TECH FOR T-CELLS SINGLE CELL RNA SEQ MEASURES SHIFTS IN IMMUNE CELLS TO PINPOINT CAUSES OF DISEASE GSK’s groundbreaking research with Open Targets means far more effective treatments for immune diseases COMBINING GENETICS AND TECH TO DOUBLE SUCCESS RATES Our innovation uses human genetics, genomics and advanced technologies to develop more effective vaccines and medicines COMPUTATIONAL BIOLOGY: SETTING THE STAGE FOR FUTURE WINS AND NEW MEDICINES How new technological advances are allowing us to keep pace with genetic information Continue to Could tiny bubbles released from bacteria cells pave the way for new vaccine technology This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share Digital twin: using advanced technology to accelerate vaccine development 30 May 2022 3 min read time Related tags Vaccines Listen to this article Developing vaccines has historically been a time-consuming process, often taking more than a decade. That’s in part because there are so many phases, each playing an integral part in helping to save lives around the world. One exciting way GSK are continuing to innovate is by using a digital technology known as a ‘digital twin’ to speed up the entire vaccine development process. Why traditional vaccine development can take long Traditional vaccine development and production progresses through many phases, with few digital connections between them. These include: Understanding the pathogen via genetic sequencing and other methods Selection of the best vaccine candidate Extensive preclinical testing, including proof of concept studies Development of the processes to manufacture the vaccine Robust in-human clinical trials to evaluate safety and efficacy The evidence generated from the above forms the basis of the vaccine’s regulatory filing and approval. Once approved, the vaccine can then be manufactured and distributed at large scale – with significant lead time allocated to provide quality control. By embracing digitalisation, GSK have identified a tremendous potential to optimise each phase of vaccine development and production. Working closely with Siemens and Atos, two of the world’s leading companies in digital transformation and technology, we have piloted a ‘digital twin’ – a complete and real-time simulation of the vaccine manufacturing process. What is a digital twin? A digital twin is a virtual replica of a process, product, or service. When applied to producing vaccines, it collects real-time insights from the outset by combining the virtual and real realms of development and manufacturing in a closed loop. When the digital twin is connected to the real process, the physical sensors send data to the twin and the simulated insights are fed back to the control system, ensuring the vaccine manufacturing process operates at optimum level. Think of it as a real-world experiment informing a computer-simulated (in silico) experiment, and vice versa, in a closed-loop so that both can become as efficient as possible. Such is the case in the automobile industry, where designs are often digitally modelled and tested in a multitude of ways on the computer before a car is ever driven.  This digital ’factory’ allows us to simulate, monitor closely, anticipate failures, and optimise quality and self-learning - ultimately allowing us to accelerate the vaccine manufacturing process and get vaccines to people much faster. Operationalising digital twins at GSK After successful completion of a proof-of-concept project with Siemens and Atos that focused on the production of particles of a vaccine adjuvant, GSK have gradually begun implementing digital twins into our development activities.   In addition to production, we are also exploring the potential of a digital twin to transform the process of vaccine R&D further upstream. This could be particularly beneficial earlier in a vaccine project, where the combination of high-throughput experimentation and the twin models would quickly produce the data needed to confirm theories. Looking ahead, a digital twin has the potential to drastically reduce real experimentation, in turn helping R&D to increase sustainability as fewer materials and less energy is consumed. Through the use of Digital Twins, faster, less wasteful, more cost-effective vaccine development and manufacturing is possible. Which ultimately helps improve the health of millions of people around the world. Matt Harrison Head of Sciences, Digital Innovations and Business Strategy in Vaccines, GSK You might also like WHY WE’RE INTRODUCING SHINGLES AWARENESS WEEK Shingles is most common for people over 50 THE 40 YEAR FIGHT AGAINST HIV How to find a treatment for a disease with no idea what that disease actually is COULD TINY BUBBLES RELEASED FROM BACTERIA CELLS PAVE THE WAY FOR NEW VACCINE TECHNOLOGY Advances in vaccine development as a result of COVID-19 has led to greater innovation for treating diseases across the board Continue to What if Remission were the Target of Lupus Care? This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share ‘The roar I hear is the next stage of the rocket firing’: MAPS technology and the new age of vaccine development 09 January 2023 5 min read time Related tags Vaccines Medicines Infectious diseases Immunology Early Science and Technology Global Health COVID-19 Listen to this article Researchers are testing innovative new ways to protect people against infectious disease – and pursuing effective vaccines to fight bacteria and viruses that have eluded them for decades. The technology used to create vaccines in record time during the pandemic marked the start of a new age in the field of vaccine development.  Scientists are turning to an array of novel approaches to prevent life-threatening diseases. Their ambitions include targeting more strains of pathogens – disease-causing organisms – and different diseases in single vaccines, stimulating stronger immune responses and providing longer-lasting protection.   In some cases, researchers are moving closer to creating vaccines that have eluded them for decades. If they reach the finish line, these discoveries could help tackle infectious diseases that take a significant toll around the world despite huge progress.  “The roar I hear is the next stage of the rocket firing,” says Dr William Schaffner, a professor of preventive medicine at Vanderbilt University and the medical director of the National Foundation for Infectious Diseases in the US.   “We’re at the beginning of a period of very exciting technological and scientific innovation. That will lead us to the development of any number of new vaccines over what I hope is a relatively short period of time.”  One such new technology showing promise is the Multiple Antigen Presenting System, or MAPS.   MAPS aims to elicit a stronger immune response against multiple types of a particular bacterium. In the case of pneumococcal bacteria, approximately 100 distinct types have been identified throughout the world. Pneumococcal diseases, including pneumonia and meningitis, are estimated to kill 1 million children a year, according to the World Health Organization. Older adults are also at risk of serious illness and death from pneumonia. The goal is to provide broader protection by combining multiple sugar and protein antigens – substances that are recognised by the immune system – from the surface of the bacteria in one vaccine, which will activate different parts of the immune system. The sugar antigens, called polysaccharides, have the potential to stimulate an antibody response, while the protein antigens can elicit an additional T-cell and antibody response. The unique way of linking the antigens together in a modular fashion, like connecting Lego blocks, is designed to overcome the complex chemistry of traditional vaccines. It could also make manufacturing new vaccines quicker and easier. “It’s a genuinely better way of making anti-bacterial vaccines,” says Dr Phil Dormitzer, the global head of vaccines research and development at GSK, which is now developing MAPS technology.   “Overall, there’s an attractive simplicity to the system.”  The approach has wider potential and, as infections become increasingly hard or sometimes impossible to treat due to drug resistance, it could also become an important tool in countering bacterial pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumoniae that often spread in healthcare facilities and are prone to develop resistance against current treatments.   Health care providers will need vaccines, along with new drugs, to counter the rising threat of superbugs. An estimated 1.2 million people die each year as germs evolve and develop the ability to survive the drugs designed to kill them. By preventing those infections from occurring in the first place, vaccinations can curb the use of antibiotics – a key driver of antimicrobial resistance, or AMR.   “That’s not being fully appreciated,” Dr Schaffner continues. “We haven’t documented that nearly as completely as we might have, in part because AMR wasn’t the problem that it is today.”  A vaccine manufacturing production line in action The research that paved the way for MAPS started in the late 1990s.  Dormitzer, then a fellow in the infectious disease program at Harvard Medical School, recalls crossing paths with another young doctor, Richard Malley, and hearing about his nascent research at Boston Children’s Hospital. Malley had just started investigating new vaccines against pneumococcal diseases and other pathogens.  At the time, Malley says that scientists – including himself at one point – often regarded vaccine research as “pedestrian”. However, when he witnessed the impact of a new vaccine, which virtually wiped out a form of meningitis in young children in the US, it opened his eyes to lifesaving new possibilities.  “I started thinking about how powerful a new vaccine introduction can be,” he says.   After a chance meeting in 1997 with Porter Anderson, one of the inventors of the pneumococcal vaccine, Malley jumped at the chance to collaborate, a decision that eventually led to the formation of Affinivax, a biotech company that GSK acquired in August 2022.  Today, vaccine technology development is anything but dull.   The need for a COVID-19 vaccine accelerated work already progressing before the pandemic and underscored the importance of quick and efficient vaccine development. In just the first year of the pandemic, COVID shots may have averted about 20 million deaths, according to researchers at Imperial College London.   “Vaccine scientists are now seeing a breadth of investigations that didn’t exist before,” says Malley, who has taken on the role of chief MAPS scientist at GSK along with his responsibilities at Boston Children’s Hospital. “I was going to say it’s a crossroads, but it’s not a crossroads. It’s like tributaries, and we must decide how many of them we can follow.”  A broad portfolio of vaccine technologies, alongside MAPS, will be critical in the bid to prevent death and disease from viral and bacterial pathogens.   After proving that messenger RNA, or mRNA, was a suitable vaccine technology to respond to COVID-19, researchers are studying what else it can achieve against targets such as influenza. While many traditional vaccines rely on weakened or inactivated parts of a virus to provoke an immune response, mRNA vaccines deliver detailed instructions to the body’s cells to make key protein antigens, effectively turning them into mini vaccine factories.  In pursuing future flu or COVID vaccines, mRNA is an important tool, says Dormitzer, who helped develop one of the highly effective COVID shots before joining GSK about a year ago.  Yet other approaches, such as protein subunit vaccines which use fragments of a pathogen to trigger immunity, remain key. Adjuvants, ingredients that enhance the magnitude and durability of the immune response to an antigen, will also play a principal role.  Instead of chasing after viruses and trying to introduce new vaccines every time a new variant arises, another priority is creating vaccines that can provide broader protection, including against multiple strains.   At the same time, scientists are studying whether they can deliver better protection from vaccines delivered via the nose rather than injected into the arm, while trying to prevent diseases from worsening in people who are already infected through so-called therapeutic vaccines or targeted immunotherapies.  Read related BEHIND THE SCIENCE MAGAZINE The ‘tripledemic’ will hit older people hard this winter – but there are things we can all do to reduce the impact Vaccine development is by its very nature complex, and a significant portion of projects never generate successful vaccines. Even when developers manage to get new vaccines to the market, awareness or acceptance in the public is often variable, despite the fact that, according to WHO, only access to clean drinking water rivals vaccination in its ability to save lives. Global immunisation levels have plateaued over the past decade, with COVID disruption pushing coverage of vaccinations against some diseases down.  Vaccine makers must ensure these innovations are accessible to vulnerable populations across the world. GSK’s vaccines R&D unit, the industry’s largest with more than 1,500 scientists, is also working on a method known as GMMA, which essentially uses the innate properties of bacteria against themselves. This technology is currently being applied to several bacterial vaccines to tackle diseases that are impacting people around the world, including in low and middle income countries. For these diseases it is essential to have effective, affordable vaccines that can be produced at scale so they can be used to protect people across the world.   With a wave of new approaches advancing, including MAPS, researchers are hopeful that in the future they will be able to deliver better vaccines more quickly, targeting infectious diseases beyond COVID-19 and moving the benefits of vaccine technologies into other areas such as cancer protection or even treatment.    “The pandemic showed what is possible when everything is focused on a single goal,” Dormitzer concludes. “But now we have to say, `So what are the things that can be accomplished in an emergency that we can apply in more ordinary times?’” You might also like ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE: NOW’S THE TIME TO PREVENT THE NEXT PANDEMIC Antibiotics are a cornerstone of modern healthcare HOW ADJUVANTS BOOST OUR IMMUNE RESPONSE With its name derived from the Latin for 'help', an adjuvant can boost our immune response DIGITAL TWIN: USING ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY TO ACCELERATE VACCINE DEVELOPMENT Embracing digitalisation is central to GSK’s new commitments to vaccine innovation This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLBehind the science magazine Next article Share Combining genetics and tech to double success rates 24 August 2021 4 min read time Related tags Early Science and Technology Listen to this article Harnessing the insights of tomorrow to make better medicines today At GSK, we don’t want to just find new, better medicines and vaccines – we want to get better at finding them, in ways that are faster and more effective. One way we’re approaching this challenge is by combining the power of genetic and genomic insights with the speed and scale of artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI-ML). When combined, these three elements – genetics, genomics, and AI-ML – can ultimately help us predict more about human health, and develop better medicines for the future. We have an incredible team of experts driving this program, but even the best people can’t do their work without the proper tools. That’s why we’ve equipped our scientists with an in-house, state-of-the-art AI hub, dedicated to using predictive modeling for drug discovery. Since 2019, our GSK team has been unlocking the potential of rich genetic data through predictive modeling with patient benefit at the centre. And as we’re learning new things about biology every day, we’re integrating insights from genetics and genomics with the power of AI-ML – allowing us to learn and do more than we ever imagined possible. Working with partners at the cutting edge of these fields, we aim to double our developmental success rate and bring more effective medicines and vaccines to people around the world. Unlocking the potential of humanity’s infinite library: Genetics and Genomics Genetic data lets us break down every aspect of who we are as humans, from eye colour to the markers of different health conditions, so we can understand the underlying code behind it. And thanks to human ingenuity and years of hard work within and outside of GSK, the field of functional genomics now helps us understand what that code does and how it interacts inside the body, in the world, and in response to disease. Patterns in this data have the potential to help us identify and evaluate avenues for medical exploration. Professor Fyodor Urnov, in the Molecular and Cell Biology Department at the University of California, Berkeley, an institution partnering with GSK in this endeavour said “CRISPR is the first tool that we have ever had in the history of biomedicine to not only uncover those treasures in human DNA but also act on them.” Human DNA bears the imprint of three-plus billion years of evolution. It never ceases to amaze us, just how big a treasure trove human genetic variation is. Professor Fyodor Urnov Molecular and Cell Biology Department at the University of California, Berkeley Patient-centric predictive modeling: AI-ML Among the billions of individual data points and genetic interactions, there exists an infinite number of possible pathways we could investigate. Given the complexity of this data, we need more advanced tools to help us analyse it at scale. That’s where AI comes in, to help us separate the relevant from the interesting. Dr. Fiona Behan, a Scientific Leader of Functional Genomics at GSK and former cancer researcher at the Wellcome Sanger Institute, sums up the promise of these tools perfectly. “Before, we knew what genes were, but not what they were doing,” Behan says. “It could take scientists decades focusing on a single gene to figure out the function. But by combining functional genomics experimental approaches with AI and ML, we can often figure that out in a couple of months.” She adds, “The reason I do what I do [in the field of functional genomics] is to transform patients’ lives.” With our in-house AI hub, we’re using ML to unlock the potential of complex genetic data with never-before-seen levels of speed, precision, and scale. Every model we build, run, or test deepens our understanding, and creates a compounding, near-infinite feedback loop of experimental possibilities. Ultimately, the use of AI improves predictions, viability, and the speed at which we can bring investigational medicines and vaccines from the lab to the clinic, and most importantly to patients. At GSK, we believe that the predictive power of AI and genetics holds the key to improving research and development. Kim Branson, Global Head of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning at GSK, also looks to the past. “We have a history of everything that [humans have] experienced in our genes…and we now have the tech to read the language of the history in our genome, make comparisons, and test hypotheses.” External podcast Listen to the Creativity Equation Podcast: Collective Knowledge - Kim Branson talking about using models to gather data and create stackable knowledge for future generations The answer to some of our diseases is carried in all of us. We have a history of everything that [humans have] experienced in our genes…and we now have the tech to read the language of the history in our genome, make comparisons, and test hypotheses. Kim Branson Global Head of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, GSK Our people and partnerships steering great science At GSK, we give our scientists the freedom to own the process and steer research where genetic data shows the most promising avenues for drug discovery. But even with the knowledge, tools, and resources within GSK, we know we can’t do it all alone. That’s why we’re increasingly partnering with and hiring outstanding people from the cutting edge of fields within and outside pharma, like tech, biotech, data-science, and academia, including: 23andMe Laboratory for Genomics Research /UC-Berkeley and UCSF The Broad Institute UK BioBank NVIDIA Cerebras By bringing together the best and brightest from across disciplines, we can create a more integrated process that’s even greater than the sum of its parts.   By harnessing the power of new partnerships, practices, and perspectives, we can solve problems to help people do more, feel better, and live longer. Find out more How the UK aims to become a global scientific Superpower COVID-19 turning rivals into allies Could tech be the right medicine for pharma R&D? Joining forces to advance genomic research and improve drug discovery You might also like COMPANY We are a global biopharma company with a purpose to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together INNOVATION Innovation is at the heart of achieving our purpose to unite science, technology and talent to get ahead of disease together PRODUCTS Learn about our product portfolio and how we’re prioritising vaccines and specialty medicines to get ahead of disease together Continue to AI and ML power better predictions for patient impact This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALLHome Company Outstanding people Innovating together 2022 Innovating together 2022 (11 videos) Learn how our people are using the science of the immune system, human genetics and advanced technologies to find new treatments for patients. Share series 3:16 Meet Pal: combining the power of genetics and genomics Episode details Transcript Hear Pal describe how she witnessed first-hand how her work in drug discovery helped a patient.  3:16 Meet Pal: combining the power of genetics and genomics 3:07 Meet Greg: solving puzzles is a passion 1:14 Meet Jeremy: my drive is to fix whats wrong with the world 1:10 Meet Katie: using big data to help more patients 1:15 Meet Shihyun: the joy of scientific discovery 1:07 Meet Giovanna: being in the golden age for molecular biology 2:44 Meet Meg: collaborating to do more 1:29 Meet Nancy: igniting change & innovation for patients living with Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) 3:19 Meet Melanie: focused on helping more patients with hepatitis B 3:17 Meet Euan: using technology in drug discovery 2:44 Meet Mugdha: working together to help more patients Watch other series (3) Watch other series Working together My GSK story Continue to Innovating together 2021 This is our global website, intended for visitors seeking information on GSK's worldwide business.  Our market sites can be reached by visiting our location selector.     © 2001-2023 GSK plc. All rights reserved. Trade marks are owned by or licensed to the GSK group of companies. GSK plc. Registered in England and Wales No. 3888792. Registered office: 980 Great West Road, Brentford, Middlesex, TW8 9GS, United Kingdom. Modern Slavery Act statement 2022 (PDF - 189.7KB) GSK websites Locations selector GSKPro for healthcare professionals GSK study register Supplier website ViiV Healthcare Quick links Behind the science magazine Company Innovation Products Responsibility Investors Media Careers Get in touch Partnerships Report a possible side effect GSK Speak up Follow us on: facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram rss Accessibility Terms of use Cookie policy Privacy notice Sitemap We use cookies GSK values your privacy and your trust is important to us. We use cookies to enhance your website experience. Some cookies are necessary to run the website. Others are optional: performance cookies show us how you use our website and features; functional cookies remember your preferences; and advertising cookies help us share relevant content.Cookie Policy Show detail ❮ OPT OUT ACCEPT ALL