ABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Overview AL Amyloidosis Parkinson’s Disease ATTR Amyloidosis Alzheimer’s Disease Publications PIPELINE Fueled by a deep scientific expertise built over decades of research, Prothena is integrating scientific insights around protein dysregulation to advance a pipeline of therapeutic candidates for a number of neurodegenerative and rare peripheral amyloid diseases which affect millions of people and their families worldwide. Prothena’s wholly owned programs include birtamimab for the potential treatment of AL amyloidosis and a portfolio of programs for the potential treatment of Alzheimer’s disease including PRX012 that targets Aβ (amyloid beta) and PRX123, the company’s dual Aβ-tau vaccine. Prothena’s collaborations include prasinezumab, which targets alpha-synuclein, with Roche for the potential treatment of Parkinson’s disease; NNC6019/PRX004 for the potential treatment of ATTR amyloidosis with Novo Nordisk; and programs that target tau (PRX005), TDP-43 and PRX019 with Bristol Myers Squibb for the potential treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. TARGET & PRODUCT INDICATION DISCOVERY PRECLINICAL PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Birtamimab Kappa & Lambda Light Chain AL Amyloidosis   Prasinezumab α-Synuclein (C-terminus) Parkinson’s Disease NNC6019/PRX004 Transthyretin (misTTR) ATTR Amyloidosis  PRX005 Tau (MTBR) Alzheimer’s Disease PRX012 Aβ (N-terminus) Alzheimer’s Disease PRX123 Aβ + Tau Alzheimer’s Disease PRX019 Neuro-degeneration TDP-43 ALS  Undisclosed AD in Down Syndrome   ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy PolicyABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Overview AL Amyloidosis Parkinson’s Disease ATTR Amyloidosis Alzheimer’s Disease Publications AL AMYLOIDOSIS AL amyloidosis is a rare, progressive and fatal disease where clonal plasma cells overproduce light chain proteins that misfold, aggregate and deposit as amyloid in vital organs such as the heart. It is estimated that there are 60,000 – 120,000 patients worldwide living with Mayo Stage IV AL amyloidosis. Patients with AL amyloidosis can present with a wide range of general symptoms that are common to other conditions such as fatigue, shortness of breath or edema. Current treatment strategies target plasma cells to reduce production of new light chain proteins, but do not address the amyloid already deposited in vital organs. Mortality is driven primarily by cardiac failure. There is an urgent unmet medical need for therapies that improve survival in patients at risk for early mortality due to amyloid deposition. Based on clinical data to date, Mayo Stage IV patients represent approximately 30% of AL amyloidosis patients. Birtamimab, formerly known as NEOD001, is an investigational monoclonal antibody designed to specifically and selectively target and clear the amyloid that accumulates and causes organ dysfunction and failure in patients with AL amyloidosis. In preclinical studies, birtamimab has been shown to broadly react with a “cryptic” epitope that is exposed on misfolded kappa and lambda light chains that misfold and form amyloid. Birtamimab has a potential best-in-class depleter mechanism designed to clear pathogenic light chain amyloid in patients with advanced AL amyloidosis. The proposed mechanism of action of birtamimab is to clear amyloid from organs and neutralize soluble aggregates that circulate in the bloodstream. Birtamimab has been tested in nearly 300 patients with AL amyloidosis at the intended clinical dose of 24 mg/kg and was shown to be generally safe and well tolerated in the clinical studies conducted to date. Birtamimab was previously evaluated in the Phase 3 VITAL Study, a global multi-center, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical study of newly diagnosed, treatment naïve patients with AL amyloidosis and cardiac involvement. Results from the analysis of patients categorized as Mayo Stage IV at baseline in the VITAL study revealed a significant survival benefit favoring birtamimab in these patients, with 74% of birtamimab-treated patients alive at 9 months versus 49% of patients in the control group. Birtamimab is the only investigational therapeutic that has shown a significant survival benefit in Mayo Stage IV patients with AL amyloidosis in a placebo-controlled study. Based on multiple in-depth discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding these results, Prothena is advancing birtamimab into the confirmatory Phase 3 AFFIRM-AL study in patients with Mayo Stage IV AL amyloidosis. This registration-enabling study will be conducted with a primary endpoint of all-cause mortality at p≤0.10 under a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) agreement with FDA. Birtamimab has been granted orphan drug designation for AL Amyloidosis by both the FDA and the European Medicines Agency and has been granted Fast Track designation by the FDA. Learn more about our Phase 3 AFFIRM-AL Study ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy PolicyABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Overview AL Amyloidosis Parkinson’s Disease ATTR Amyloidosis Alzheimer’s Disease Publications PARKINSON’S DISEASE Parkinson’s disease is a progressive degenerative disorder of the central nervous system (CNS) that affects one in 100 people over age 60. With an estimated seven to 10 million patients living with Parkinson’s disease worldwide, it is the most common neurodegenerative movement disorder. Parkinson’s disease is characterized by the neuronal accumulation of aggregated α-synuclein in the CNS and peripheral nervous system that results in a wide spectrum of worsening progressive motor and non-motor symptoms. Mutations and changes in the levels of α-synuclein have been associated with multiple neurodegenerative illnesses, including Parkinson’s disease. The alpha-synuclein protein is a prominent component of Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites (abnormal protein clusters on the inside of neurons), the pathological hallmarks of several neurological disorders classified as synucleinopathies. While diagnosis relies on motor symptoms classically associated with Parkinson’s disease, non-motor symptoms may present many years earlier. Current treatments for Parkinson’s disease are symptomatic and only address a subset of symptoms such as motor impairment, dementia or psychosis. Symptomatic therapies do not target the underlying cause of the disease and lose effectiveness, often leading to debilitating side effects as the disease progresses. There are currently no treatments available that target the underlying cause of the disease and can slow or stop the progression. Prasinezumab is a first-in-class therapeutic with the goal of reducing clinical decline in Parkinson’s disease. Prasinezumab targets α-synuclein and is designed to block the cell-to-cell transmission of the aggregated pathogenic forms of α-synuclein that are the cause of Parkinson’s disease, thereby slowing clinical decline. Prasinezumab is currently in a Phase 2b PADOVA study and an ongoing long term extension of Phase 2 PASADENA study. Both studies are being conducted by our partners at Roche. ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy PolicyABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Overview AL Amyloidosis Parkinson’s Disease ATTR Amyloidosis Alzheimer’s Disease Publications ATTR AMYLOIDOSIS Transthyretin amyloidosis (ATTR amyloidosis) is a rare, progressive and fatal disease characterized by deposition of abnormal, non-native forms of TTR protein (misTTR) in vital organs. ATTR amyloidosis can be hereditary (hATTR) when caused by a mutation in the TTR gene, or wild-type (wtATTR) when it occurs sporadically. It is estimated that there are more than 450,000 patients worldwide with wtATTR amyloidosis or hATTR amyloidosis. In both forms of the disease, patients can experience a spectrum of clinical manifestations affecting multiple organs, most commonly the heart and peripheral nerves. TTR protein (healthy form) is produced primarily in the liver and serves as a carrier for thyroxin and retinol binding protein (a transporter for vitamin A). The investigational humanized monoclonal antibody NNC6019/PRX004 is designed to target and clear the non-native transthyretin aggregates (misTTR) associated with disease pathology that underlies both wtATTR and hATTR, without affecting the native, or normal tetrameric form of the protein (TTR). It is generally accepted that, at the time of diagnosis, affected peripheral organs in ATTR patients (both wtATTR and hATTR amyloidosis) contain amyloid deposits. These deposits, together with prefibrillar species, are believed to cause organ dysfunction and failure. Existing therapies do not address amyloid deposition and are ineffective or untested in moderate-to-advanced cardiomyopathy in patients who are at highest risk of mortality due to amyloid deposition in the heart. NNC6019/PRX004 is a misTTR depleter, with a differentiated mechanism of action designed to clear existing deposits and prevent new formation. In preclinical studies, PRX004 has been shown to inhibit amyloid fibril formation, neutralize soluble aggregate forms of misTTR and promote clearance of insoluble amyloid fibrils through antibody-mediated phagocytosis. This differentiated mechanism of action could be developed as a monotherapy approach to ATTR amyloidosis and may also complement existing therapeutic approaches which either stabilize the native TTR tetramer or reduce new TTR synthesis. Based on clinical data to date, patients with moderate-to-advanced cardiomyopathy represent approximately 33% of ATTR amyloidosis patients, who face a significant unmet need due to late diagnosis and limited efficacy of existing therapies. Prothena has completed a Phase 1 study with PRX004 in patients with hereditary forms of ATTR, in which PRX004 was found to be safe and well tolerated. In July 2021, Novo Nordisk acquired our ATTR amyloidosis program and has initiated a Phase 2 trial of NNC6019/PRX004 in patients with ATTR cardiomyopathy. ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy PolicyABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Overview AL Amyloidosis Parkinson’s Disease ATTR Amyloidosis Alzheimer’s Disease Publications ALZHEIMER’S DISEASE Alzheimer’s disease is a devastating form of dementia that causes memory, thinking and behavior problems. At the earliest stages, Alzheimer’s disease commonly results in difficulty in remembering new information because the disease starts in the part of the brain associated with learning and memory. Alzheimer’s disease is the 7th leading cause of death in the United States, with more than 6 million Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease, making it the most common neurodegenerative disorder. By comparison, the number of individuals in the United States alive today that have ever had lung cancer (the most common form of cancer) is approximately 541,000. There is an urgent need for therapies that slow the progression and ultimately prevent Alzheimer’s disease to address this global healthcare crisis. It is believed two different proteins – Aβ (amyloid beta) and tau – are primary contributors to Alzheimer’s disease pathology. Misfolded Aβ builds up to form plaques between nerve cells in the brain. Tangles of twisted tau fibrils spread from cell-to-cell and cause build up inside cells. People with Alzheimer’s disease develop these pathological hallmarks of the disease in a predictable pattern as the disease progresses, starting in the centers of the brain responsible for memory and spreading out from there to other regions of the brain. Our team leverages this foundational knowledge along with insights gained over the last 20 years of drug development in the Alzheimer’s disease space to develop new approaches to address this complex disease. Recent data suggests that timely intervention with anti-Aβ therapy results in statistically significant and clinically meaningful slowing of disease progression. These therapies have the potential to fundamentally change how we treat Alzheimer’s disease. These first-generation therapies are likely to require further development to increase patient access and enhance the patient experience. Prothena’s Alzheimer’s disease portfolio spans next generation antibody immunotherapy, small molecule and vaccine approaches, geared toward building upon first generation treatments to advance the treatment paradigm. Prothena’s ongoing Phase 1 study of PRX012, a potential best-in-class, next-generation subcutaneously delivered anti-Aβ antibody, is being developed for the potential treatment of Alzheimer’s disease. PRX012 has been granted Fast Track designation by the FDA. In collaboration with Bristol Myers Squibb, the Phase 1 single ascending dose (SAD) portion of the study in healthy volunteers demonstrated dose-proportional PRX005 concentrations in plasma with robust central nervous system (CNS) penetration of this potentially best-in-class investigational anti-MTBR-tau antibody. Single doses of PRX005 across three dose cohorts were generally safe and well tolerated, meeting the primary objective of the study. The Phase 1 multiple ascending dose (MAD) portion of the study is ongoing in healthy volunteers and patients with Alzheimer’s disease. ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy PolicyABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Nothing Found Sorry, the post you are looking for is not available. Maybe you want to perform a search? For best search results, mind the following suggestions: Always double check your spelling. Try similar keywords, for example: tablet instead of laptop. Try using more than one keyword. ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy PolicyABOUT US OUR SCIENCE PIPELINE CLINICAL TRIALS NEWS CENTER INVESTORS CAREERS Overview AL Amyloidosis Parkinson’s Disease ATTR Amyloidosis Alzheimer’s Disease Publications PIPELINE Fueled by a deep scientific expertise built over decades of research, Prothena is integrating scientific insights around protein dysregulation to advance a pipeline of therapeutic candidates for a number of neurodegenerative and rare peripheral amyloid diseases which affect millions of people and their families worldwide. Prothena’s wholly owned programs include birtamimab for the potential treatment of AL amyloidosis and a portfolio of programs for the potential treatment of Alzheimer’s disease including PRX012 that targets Aβ (amyloid beta) and PRX123, the company’s dual Aβ-tau vaccine. Prothena’s collaborations include prasinezumab, which targets alpha-synuclein, with Roche for the potential treatment of Parkinson’s disease; NNC6019/PRX004 for the potential treatment of ATTR amyloidosis with Novo Nordisk; and programs that target tau (PRX005), TDP-43 and PRX019 with Bristol Myers Squibb for the potential treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. TARGET & PRODUCT INDICATION DISCOVERY PRECLINICAL PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 Birtamimab Kappa & Lambda Light Chain AL Amyloidosis   Prasinezumab α-Synuclein (C-terminus) Parkinson’s Disease NNC6019/PRX004 Transthyretin (misTTR) ATTR Amyloidosis  PRX005 Tau (MTBR) Alzheimer’s Disease PRX012 Aβ (N-terminus) Alzheimer’s Disease PRX123 Aβ + Tau Alzheimer’s Disease PRX019 Neuro-degeneration TDP-43 ALS  Undisclosed AD in Down Syndrome   ABOUT US NEWS CENTER CAREERS CONTACT US Follow us © 2023 Prothena | Terms of Use | Privacy Policy